Until Dawn is a unique survival horror game released on August 25, 2015. The game is developed by Supermassive Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment as a PlayStation 4 exclusive. This page will serve as the Until Dawn Walkthrough and Guide. From here you’ll be able to beat every chapter, saving as many of your characters as possible. We’ll also show you where to find all of the game’s Totems, as well as Clues in case you’re on the collectible hunt.
The tricky part about Until Dawn is that any of the hundreds of decisions you’ll have to make could lead to a butterfly effect that drastically changes the way the story plays out for you in future chapters. It even changes the title of each chapter, which is why we've opted to use the time until dawn as our chapter titles. For this reason, you might find that some of what we encountered isn’t the same as what you experienced. However, if you are stuck at a particular crossroads and don’t know what to do, chances are we have been there and can help you make the best decision possible.
Before we jump into the walkthrough, let’s start off with a few tips.
? Collect Totems and Clues, as they can help you avoid trouble, and in some cases are required in order to save the life of some of your characters.
? Never let your guard down during cut scenes, as Until Dawn has many QTEs that can save your life, or lead to your death. One mistake and you’re done.
? There are no save slots, so whatever happens on your first play through is permanent. All of your characters could live, or they could all die. It’s up to you.
? As a general rule, don’t wander off on your own. In some situations leaving the group can lead to your death, but staying with has yet to backfire on us.
? The game tells you that sometimes choosing to do nothing is the best option, and we can confirm that on several occasions this advice saved someone’s life.
Until Dawn begins with a dark, frigid cabin in the woods. As the camera pans around, the scene quickly shifts to a discussion from within the cabin, where you are introduced to several individuals. The initial cutscene helps to give you a feel for the characters’ personalities before having you to take control of Beth, the girl in front of the window. Controlling Beth allows you to learn the basic gameplay mechanics while absorbing several key story elements.
The gameplay is fairly straightforward. Most of your interactions will involve moving a character and following the button prompts on the screen. Objects that shine with a small glint of light are ones that you can interact with or inspect. Some situations consist of timed choices or QTE’s (quick time events), requiring a quick reaction to the prompts. It is important to stay alert during cutscenes, as you will encounter several sudden, timed decisions. Missing your chance to appropriately respond to timed choices can result in drastic or unwanted changes in the outcome of your story.
As you control Beth, you are free to roam around the kitchen area to interact with several objects. To your left, you’ll find a note on the island counter written to Hannah. As you walk to the opposite side of the counter, you’ll find an empty liquor bottle near Beth’s brother Josh, who appears to have passed out from the contents of the bottle. Please note that we will only be mentioning some of the collectibles in this walkthrough, as they will be fully covered in a separate post.
Your first player choice comes after the bedroom cutscene involving Mike, Hannah, and the others. You’re tasked with choosing to either Wake Josh or Find Others. We chose to wake Josh, which quickly led into a frantic cutscene.
As Beth darts into the woods, be prepared for a QTE and another player choice. You will be given the option to either go the Safe route, or the Fast route. In our playthrough we opted for the former. Feel free to choose either, but keep in mind that your experience will likely differ from ours if you choose the other option.
Soon after, you are confronted with yet another option: either Follow Footprints or Follow Noise. We once again chose the former. As Beth treks deeper into the snowy forest, continue to follow the tutorial prompts to use her cell phone as a flashlight, and then take a moment to get used to the movement mechanics. The left stick is used for walking, while the right stick moves your head and directs any light source you may be carrying. Holding L1 allows you to walk a bit faster.
Make your way down the path until you find an item of interest on the ground ahead. The object is called a Totem, and is one of several kinds that can be found in the game. This particular one is called a Death Totem, which generally indicates how a member of your group will die. However, this is not necessarily set in stone. Depending on the actions and choices you make throughout the game, it is possible to have an outcome that differs from the Totem’s prediction.
Continue along the path until you find Hannah ahead. Once this intense scene plays out, you are faced with a timed decision to either Drop Hannah or Let Go. In our playthrough, we chose to drop our beloved sister in an attempt to save ourselves. Clearly, our hubris got the best of us.
After making this tough decision, the prologue concludes. You will find yourself in the office of Dr. A.J. Hill, where you will answer a series of questions. Answer how you see fit, keeping in mind that your choices may have an effect on the outcome of your playthrough.
Chapter 1 opens with an air of mystery surrounding the events of the prologue. With 10 hours until dawn, you’ll begin this chapter by taking control of Hannah’s best friend, Sam, who you may recognize as the actress Hayden Panettiere. As she approaches the ominous, snow covered forest, we get a quick breakdown of Sam’s personality traits. Her bio describes her as diligent, considerate, and adventurous. We’ll see if these traits prove beneficial as your decisions as Sam unfold.
Walk Sam down the powdered path until you reach a gate. Examine the note on the gate, and then look for a glinting spot to the left on the stone wall. Here, you must choose between the Safe or Quickroutes. In our playthrough, we chose the Safe route. Complete the few QTE’s that follow to help Sam get over the wall.
Continue down the path until you discover a sign on the base of a figure, which essentially explains the meaning behind the various Totems you can find in the game. The Totems are color coded depending on the nature of its prophesy. For instance, a black Totem shows a prediction of a potential death scenario, as we saw in the prologue. You can press R1 on your controller to review the Totems you’ve found. Upon reading the sign, Sam will also find a yellow Guidance Totem on the ground nearby, which reveals a scene of a bird flying from a picnic table with a person kneeling on the right. Keep in mind that whether or not the Totem’s prophesy comes true depends on your actions as a player. These Totem prophesies can sometimes help to inform your future decisions, so it’s best to pay attention to these as you come across them.
Head to the cable car station and feel free to search the area. On a bench to the right you can find a backpack belonging to Chris. As you examine the bag, a cell phone starts vibrating in the front pocket. Here, you can choose to either Close Bag or Snoop, and in our playthrough we chose the latter. An on-screen butterfly graphic will appear after you make your decision here, which the game cleverly refers to as the “Butterfly Effect”, indicating that a narrative-altering choice has been made. Feel free to choose either option, but please note that for the sake of consistency, you will likely need to make the same choice as us if you are using our playthrough as a guide.
Upon making this choice you’ll be introduced to Chris, a methodical, protective, humorous fellow who apparently has a crush on Ashley. He asks Sam to follow him to the back of the station to look at something. Walk Sam along the right side of the cable car station, and notice a clue on the side of the station building. The clue appears to be a torn wanted poster for a Victor Milgram, who is wanted in connection with a first-degree arson offense, and hasn’t been seen since March 16, 1998. It is unclear what this clue means as of yet, but keep in mind that you can review and examine your collected clues by pressing R1 on your controller.
As you continue around the back of the cable car station, your control will switch from Sam to Chris, where you will be tasked with a bit of timed shooting practice. Use the right stick to aim at the indicated targets, and use R2 to shoot. When the squirrel appears in the range, we chose to shoot the bag instead, which resulted in another Butterfly Effect. Surely the squirrel would thank us if it could.
Return to the front of the cable car station. Still in control of Chris, use his key to open the front door. As you and Sam wait for the cable car, take some time to look around. Inside the control room you can examine a poster near the door. There is also a flickering monitor on the desk in the corner. When finished, head out and enter the cable car with Sam.
A brief, nostalgic dialogue will play out as Sam and Chris ride up the mountain. At the upper cable car station, you’ll be introduced to Jess, Mike’s new girlfriend, who is described as confident, trusting, and irreverent. You’ll recognize her from the prologue, though Mike was with Emily at the time. Press continue after viewing her bio to take control of Jess.
If you’re facing the bench, walk Jess to the right of the bench and press the green button to let Chris and Sam through the door. Due to our choice to snoop at Chris’ cell phone earlier, Chris will snatch a letter from Jess. As Jess, you can choose to either Insist that Chris gives the letter back, or Explain her situation with Mike. We chose to explain ourselves, and then the scene concludes.
The scene now shifts to the introduction of Emily and Matt. Emily, Mike’s ex who we saw in the prologue, is described as intelligent, resourceful and persuasive. She also has a new boyfriend named Matt, who is motivated, ambitious, and active. It’s important to note the various personality traits of the characters, as this will help you make decisions for these characters in the future.
As you walk down the path, you’ll quickly be introduced to Mike, Emily’s ex. Mike is driven, intelligent and persuasive, sharing similar qualities to that of Emily. After meeting Mike, you will be in control of Matt and will be given the option to either Threaten or Welcome Mike. We took the more civil route and chose to welcome him. Soon after this, you must decide whether to Agree with Emily or Persist. We chose to persist, as cooperation and looking out for one another seem fairly beneficial when it comes to survival.
As the scene shifts, we’re introduced to yet another member of the group, Ashley. She has a mutual crush on Chris, and possesses traits that include being academic, inquisitive, and forthright. After viewing her bio, take control of Ashley and look through the viewing telescope. Tilt the telescope toward the lower left to view something interesting. As you continue to use the telescope, a cutscene will eventually interject. As Ashley, you must choose to either Mislead or Encourage Matt. We chose to encourage him to look through the telescope and judge the situation for himself.
Afterwards, the game returns back to Jess at the upper cable car station. Choose to either Check Phone or Read Book. We chose to check the phone, and this led quickly to another choice to eitherRun to Bench or Grab Snowball, whereby we chose the latter. This initiates a QTE based snowball fight. We chose to hit Mike with snowballs when given the opportunity, but decided not to hit the bird on the picnic table, since avoiding unnecessary animal abuse seems like a good general rule to follow. You should recognize this scene from the Guidance Totem prediction earlier. Now, feel free to hit the bird in your playthrough, but note that by doing so the events of this guide will likely differ from your own. it can be tempting to follow every prompt, but just remember that sometimes inaction is also a viable choice.
Before the flirtatious snowball fight concludes, you must make one last choice. Although it was briefly tempting to Kiss Mike, we felt that he ultimately deserved another frosty snowball to the face, and thus chose to Grab Snowball instead.
The final scene commences with another visit to Dr. Hill’s office. He again asks a series of questions, this time pertaining to your anxieties and fears. Answer however you wish, and the chapter concludes.
Chapter 2 starts with a brief bio of Hannah and Beth’s complex, loving, and thoughtful brother Josh. After a brief conversation between Josh, Chris, and the rest of the group, you are given control of Chris. Make your way up the stairs of the lodge to speak with Josh. Here you’ll be given two choices: toGossip about Matt and Emily or address our concerns via a Worry option. We chose to Worry. After realizing the door of the lodge was locked Chris walks down the stairs where Ashley meets with him. During this conversation we chose Confident. Once in control of Chris, take a stroll downward where you can find a Guidance Totem lying in the snow.
As Chris, we made our way further down the path, Josh following closely behind. Sam is standing by a gate peering out into the darkness. We conversed with her, without any choices available, and then afterwards conversed with Matt. We could have been Nosy but chose otherwise, opting to be Friendlywith him instead.
After finishing talking with both Sam and Matt, make your way back up the path where Ashley sits silently at the foot of the stairs. Continue on to the right. Shortly after Josh makes a few comments about Ashley. He expects us to Agree with him, but we chose to tell him to “cut it out” in Protestinstead. Josh continues to speak, expecting you to agree with him again. We decided to Agree instead of Disagree this time.
Continue the snowy trek around the lodge, where you may notice a green box sitting against the wall of the lodge. There is also an axe in the case on the left that you may want to examine first before interacting with the box. With Josh’s help, move the box right under one of the windows, open it, and crawl through. Chris manages to make it through the window, albeit with a bit of a rough landing. Once Chris gets back on his feet Josh informs him he has some things to sort out, and eventually leaves Chris to wander the house in the darkness. Browse the garage to your heart’s content, but keep an eye out for a Loss Totem next to a bike.
There are two doors to the far left of the room. We first went through the left door and suggest you do the same, as you will find a Newspaper Fragment sitting on a shelf next to some snowboarding boots. This fragment will prove to be useful later on, so prioritize picking it up at this stage of your journey.
Now head back into the garage and go through the door on the right. Make your way down the corridor and into the next room, noting the Family Portrait on the wall. Through the foyer, you can interact with Sam, who’s stuck in the cold outside.
Head to the first floor of the lodge, and to the right of the double doors where you can find a Prom Night Photo. As you continue exploring, you may find the Cinema Room as well as a Beach Photo of Hannah, Beth and Josh.
Head back to the first floor and up another set of steps on the left. Walk to the left and make your way to the far left end near the balcony to discover a Film Trophy clue. Set it down and then notice a door immediately to Chris’ left (right from the camera’s perspective), that has a bull skull hanging above it. Head left through it into the room down the hall. This eventually leads to another door. Open it to discover a bathroom, and notice the glint of light on one of the lower cupboards. We opened it; you should too.
After a cutscene occurs, Chris finds a way to open the front door to let everyone in. Matt then becomes confrontational with Mike. Prepare to briefly take control of Matt, and choose to eitherChallenge Mike or Warn him. We decided to Challenge him. Things start to get heated so we immediately Apologize instead of admitting any Distrust. This didn’t abate the tension in the room though. Once Emily strolls in, insults start to fly, as Emily and Jess start arguing. We decided to Defusethe situation twice. We had the option to Provoke but found it unwise given the situation. However, feel free to choose any option. Just prepare to face any potential consequences of your actions later on. After we attempted to defuse the situation ourselves, Josh stepped in and tactfully pacified the situation.
After a brief conversation between Mike, Jess, and Josh you are given control over Mike. Make your way down the stairs and away from lodge. Keep to the snowy path until you run into a gate. We didn’t go through the gate though. Instead, head to the right towards a shed containing the generator. Remember, that flashlight isn’t just for looks. Use your flashlight to search the ground and find a Danger Totem to the left of the door. After, go into the shed and turn on the generator by following the prompts. Go back to the gate and try opening it. Press the green button and Kazam! the gate opens. Continue to walk along the path and make your way up a relatively steep incline until Jess gets distracted by leftover police tape tied to a tree. Jess becomes creeped out and we opted to Ask rather than be Respectful.
Progress down the path until you reach a mine. Jess falls down into the mine and, as Mike, we decided to be Cautious instead of Heroic, then when Jess proved not to be able to move the mining cart we decided to give some Helpful advice instead of Insisting her to try again. Jess still wasn’t having any of it so we decided to be Heroic and jumped down to help her push the minecart out of the way.
We suggest you explore the mine as best you can to ensure you find anything relevant to the story. Up the stairs to the right, you check for an alleged ‘Native American’ Mystical Symbol, and a Cigar Stub near some candles. Keep to the path and you’ll find a Mine Danger Map on a table to the right. Because of how dangerous this place was we decided to find the shortest way out, which was simply straight ahead of the map. Speaking of which, looking at the Mine Danger Map suggested that further exploration may have led to other explorable areas, but also may have proven fatal. Do what you will, but proceed with caution. As for us, and the sake of our underwear, we wanted to stay clear from spooky territory.
Exit the mine to continue on our “sexcapade” with Jess. Turn to the right and walked up the stairs with the ‘cabin’ sign. Converse along the way until you arrive at a telescope. Look through it. We dare you. Don’t forget to check out the sign to the left. And don’t forget to use that flashlight like we said before. You should spot a gate nearby if you’re doing things correctly. Soon after we walked through the gate we ran into some wildlife, and chose to react in a Witty way instead of being Annoyed. A cutscene ensues.
Say goodbye to Mike and Jess for the time being as you are given control of Sam back at the fancy Washington Lodge. P.S. The power is still out and at this point we’re still confused on why no one is thoroughly creeped out yet. Oh, to be young and bold.
Once you are in control of Sam take a look around the bathroom (don’t worry...nothing is in the lower cupboard). Walk towards the camera and through the double door. Make your way down stairs where you’ll meet Josh and some of the gang. Chris and Ashley leave together and Josh takes you to the bottom floor. He thinks Chris and Ashley need some alone time. Two options are available: Flatteringand Mocking. We went with Flattering. Josh then took Sam down to the basement where he thanked her for being at the lodge. We decided to Reassure him rather than be Uneasy about the whole situation. Watch your step as you proceed down to the boiler room, because a cutscene ensues. Just follow the prompts when they appear to get the boiler working.
Once the hot water is going you can choose to Protest or Prank after Josh Joshes you. We chose to get him back with a Prank and then Gloated instead of Insisting. Josh wasn’t impressed with us, but he suddenly became quite serious once a rhythmic gong noise continuously echoes throughout the basement. We weren’t too keen on going it alone. After all, we’re not very Heroic. We decided to beConcerned instead and go check it out with Josh. Now sit back and relax...if you can. A cutscene with a couple QTE prompts occurs.
After you get back upstairs say goodnight to Sam. Then enjoy a cutscene with Dr. Hill asking you yet another series of questions. It’s unclear how these sessions effect the game as of yet, but perhaps honesty will prove to be the best policy in the end. As always, you can answer as you wish. This concludes Chapter 2.
In Chapter 3 we join Josh, Ashley, and Chris for a spiritual session on Josh’s newly uncovered Ouija board. After the initial cutscene, you must choose whether Ashley should be Serious or Flippant. We decided to approach the situation seriously. A few moments later, we had Ashley Clarify rather thanProbe.
As the tension escalates, we had Ashley ask if they were speaking with Hannah or Beth. Soon after, we chose to Apologize rather than Probe, hoping to ease the conversation. The choice to Probe or Clarifyappeared once again, and this time we chose to probe for more information. After some brief dialogue, this scene concludes. Keep in mind that choosing different options from us may alter the series of events in your version of the story.
The scene now shifts back to Mike, who is outside in the bitter cold. Ahead on the path to the left, you’ll find an old, broken down truck. Stop to investigate the truck, then continue down the path. After another quick cutscene, we chose to be Witty instead of Grumpy, because Mike is just such a chill guy in these kind of situations.
Soon after, use that handy flashlight of yours to find a Guidance Totem at the base of a tree nearby. Be sure to get a good look at the prophesy, as Guidance Totems are meant to assist with your decisions later on. Also remember that you can review your discovered Totems in the menu by pressing R1.
Head to the right of the Totem to cross a bridge. As you walk down the path, prepare for a brief QTE. Continue along the snowy path until you discover a dilapidated shack. Jess makes a quip about the cabin, but don’t worry, this is not the cabin you’re looking for. Take a minute to snoop about the shack, and you’ll find an Old Mask clue near the righthand wall as you enter the front door. This triggers an opportunity to either Scare Jess or Show her the mask, whereby we chose the latter. It seemed like we had enough prank scares for one evening.
Keep walking forward along the snow covered path until you stumble upon a wounded deer. You must choose to either Kill Deer or Comfort Deer. Sticking with the general trend not to harm wildlife throughout our playthrough, so we chose to comfort the deer, although in hindsight putting the deer out of its misery may have been suitable given the circumstances.
Just as fair warning, the events following the deer encounter led to a somewhat unwanted outcome for us. We end up losing a character, and it is unclear if it was due to our actions up to this point. We’ll explain how we handled the situation, but if you feel that you should do things differently to get a desired outcome, just be aware that your experience may greatly differ in the following chapters.
Soon after the deer encounter, there will be a series of QTE’s as you quickly make your way down the path. You must choose to either Risk Shortcut or Follow Path. We chose to stay on the path, and soon after we chose to Help Jessica and not Grab Key. So far, so good. However, it’s hard to say whether these choices led to our negative outcome or not.
As Mike, search the cabin for a way to light a fire. We lit the lantern near the fireplace, and attempted to use the fuse box over by the refrigerator. On a table behind the couch where Jess is sitting, look for a small box of matches that can be used for a fire later. There is also a rifle in a case next to the cabin door. Upon taking the rifle out of the case, we opted to Show Jessica the rifle rather than Scare her with it. Gun safety is important! After Mike flaunts the gun around a bit, head to the fireplace to start the fire.
With the fire going, Mike attempts to make his move on Jess. Rather than Reassure her, we chose to Seduce her, which may have been our folly. In hindsight, it was probably better to reassure her, but feel free to handle the situation how you wish. As requested, Mike proceeds to close the shutters, and continues the conversation with Jess. This time, we chose to Reassure her instead of being Dismissive.
Head down the hall and you’ll find another clue. This time it’s a Tennis Photo from not too long ago. Make your way into the bedroom and locate a chest under the window that contains a folded blanket. Opening the chest triggers a cutscene, so if you plan on looking around the room, be sure to do so before opening the chest. After this cutscene, head back down the hallway to get Jess’ cell phone off the floor. One more cutscene plays out, and then shifts back to the lodge.
The scene now picks up where we left off with Ashley and Chris. As Ashley, head down the stairs with Chris and make your way to the library. Keep an eye out on the ground to discover another clue, in the form of a Light from Below, glowing from one of the floor vents. Continue through the library entrance, and explore the room until a cutscene is triggered. Pushing the button seemed to be the only interactive element in the room at this point, so go ahead and press it.
From here, the character control transitions from Ashley to Chris, as he enters the new room. There’s a clue to the left in the form of a Portrait Photo. Be sure to turn the letter over to discover the Threatening Letter as well. We decided to be Honest with Ashley about what you found, rather than be Protective of her. The choice is yours.
Head back out of the library to the room where you found the light through the floor vent. A door on the right that was previously locked is now open, so take a deep breath and head on through. Walk to the end of the hallway until you reach another closed door. Turn to the left and examine a letter on the table. Be sure to turn the letter over, thus adding the Native American Letter to your inventory of clues. Now go through the closed door, as this leads back to the main foyer. After a brief cutscene occurs, control Chris and follow the screen prompts to try and break down the door. The mystery intensifies as this last scene unfolds.
Of course, prepare for yet another bizarre therapy session with Dr. Hill. Do your best to answer his questions honestly, as Chapter 3 concludes.

Tensions are high as the mystery of Until Dawn begins to unravel. Chapter 4 brings us back to Mike. Due to our actions in Chapter 3, Mike has bolted out of the cabin in an attempt to save Jessica, rifle in hand. Now, please note that the following sequence of actions did not work out favorably for us in the end. While it’s hard to pinpoint the cause of our unwanted outcome, be advised it may be beneficial to deviate from our choices if you want a better result.
Prepare for a few QTE’s (Quick Time Events) and timed decisions. In order ensure Jessica’s survival, we are going to tell you right now that you must take all of the shortcuts and risks in the following quick time events. Do not choose any of the safe options if you wish for Jessica to live. In our playthrough, we ended up having Mike choose several of the safe options, leading to Jessica’s demise. Take this as an opportunity to learn from our mistakes.
In the frantic hunt for Jessica, the first path choice was to either Follow Path or Risk Shortcut. We chose to stick to the path. After a brief QTE, Mike stops to look through the rifle scope. Aim down to the right to see Jessica. Then, we chose to have Mike Go Around instead of Jump Down, as it seemed better to avoid risking an injury from the high drop. After a series of QTE’s, we chose to Shimmy rather than Jump, opting for what seemed to be the safer route at the time.
If you are following along with our choices, the next one comes after you clear the gap, where you must either Follow Path or Risk Slide Down. This is where our decision-making went awry, as we chose not to take a risk by following the path. Our penchant for safety cost us the life of a character. It turns out we needed to take risks the entire way in order to save Jessica. This is one of those moments where it doesn’t pay to play it safe.
Once inside the building, look for a staircase on the right near a sign that says ‘Elevator’. Be sure to snag the Guidance Totem at the bottom of the stairs. Then, locate the ‘Unsafe Keep Out’ sign to the right and start to make your way through the tunnel. Approach the elevator to trigger a cutscene.
It was at this gruesome juncture that we lost Jessica, which was seemingly caused by Mike choosing the Follow Path route a few moments earlier, as was revealed in a flashback. If you happen to be following the same decisions as this guide, then you’ve lost Jessica as well. Let’s try and hold on to the remaining characters, shall we?
After the horrific cutscene, quickly have Mike aim the rifle and shoot at the alleged killer. Proceed to the back side of the elevator. Prepare for a QTE, and a decision to either play it Safe or take the Quickroute. At this point we had not shaken our penchant for safety, so it should come as no surprise that we took the safe route. The rest of this session as Mike mainly involves a series of QTE’s, which should pose little trouble.
The scene transitions back to the lodge, where we wake from the kitchen floor in Chris’ perspective. Feel free to peruse the kitchen for potential clues. However, the only thing we found was a coin purse covered in blood on the floor which, oddly enough, didn’t even trigger as a clue anyway. Continue through the double doors on the opposite end of the room where you had entered earlier.
Through the doors there will be a large blood splatter on the wall, and by the looks of it, the situation seems grim for whoever that blood belongs to. Continue to the right down the hall and exit the lodge through an open door leading outside. Once at the bottom of the stairs, we took the path to the right. Follow the path until you see another path that branches to the left. Go down the left path, which eventually leads to a scarecrow donning a pretty hideous clown mask.
Walk past the scare-clown over to the base of a tree, where you will find a Pig’s Head, which happens to be a clue. Once again, it’s a bit odd that the scare-clown was not counted as a clue, but at least you’ve gathered something from going down this path. Search the ground to the left of the pig’s head and locate a Death Totem. Remember that you can review the Totem prophesies in the menu using R1. It may be helpful to replay the prophesies a few times to get an idea of who it might involve, and what to expect.
Backtrack to where the path originally forked, and continue going forward along the main path until you reach a building with an open door. However, we advise to not go into this door just yet. There is probably more to find along the path outside, but in our playthrough we made the mistake of going into the door first, causing us to get locked inside. We ended up losing a character, which will be explained in a moment. It is best to explore the outer area first, in case there is an alternate method that prevents the loss of a character. It is best to avoid the building if you can, but since you are following along with our guide, we must reveal the outcome of our decision to enter the building.
After the door slams shut, Chris will be locked inside, and soon will have to make the toughest decision yet. In a gruesome “Saw’-like scenario, you must choose to either Save Ashley or Save Josh, and unfortunately, inaction is not an option this time. You must choose to save one or the other. We ultimately rationalized that due to his crush on Ashley, Chris would choose to save her rather than Josh, which is too bad, since Josh was a likeable character as well. Our track record for keeping the group safe is not looking so good.
Our goal with this guide is to help you save as many characters as possible. Thus, it is really difficult to avoid giving spoilers through our explanation of events. It is necessary for us to reveal where our choices went awry for the sake of allowing you to effectively save keep the characters safe by avoiding our mistakes, and hopefully so far you have found this guide helpful.
After the horror of the previous scene subsides, you will be transferred, you guessed it, back to Dr. Hill’s office, who seems to be getting progressively unstable with every chapter. Deal with another bonkers session with Dr. Hill, and Chapter 4 concludes.

With six hours until dawn, Chapter 5 resumes in Mike’s perspective. Start by walking forward toward a stone fountain in the yard. Head to the left of the fountain toward the main gate, and locate a Fortune Totem at its base. Now, turn back and make your way toward the main building, and take note of the ‘Condemned’ sign to the left of the front door. You may be able to enter using the front door, but we chose to explore and found an entrance to the left.
Take a few moments to explore the dank basement area, and then head through a door in a wall made of chain link fence. Locate a barrel to the left, and push it forward toward the catwalk, allowing Mike to jump up. Carefully make your way along the catwalk, and climb up through a hole in the flooring above. This is the area that the front door would have led to, but there’s no telling whether entering via the front door would have had unforeseen consequences.
Instead of entering the lobby, turn to the right towards the front door. Locate some Administration Notes on a desk nearby, giving you some insight into these mysterious events. Now turn back and walk through the main lobby area and you’ll see a Chapel sign straight ahead, leading to some curved double doors. Since the door is locked, you can’t go through just yet, but you can still take a peek inside.
Backtrack through the lobby where you came from, and head through a doorway labeled ‘Admin’, noting the Blackwood Pines Sanatorium sign on the right. Through the Admin door, hang a left to discover a small safe on the floor. Wedge open the safe to find a clue in the form of Clocking-in Cards, then continue exploring the room to discover the Broken Camera clue on top of a filing cabinet.
Go through the door with the ‘Morgue’ sign, but don’t go down the left hallway just yet. First, walk straight and enter a room on Mike’s right to locate an Old Newspaper clue on the desk. Now you can leave the room and follow the Morgue signs down the hallway. Check the first room on the right to find some Medical Notes on the desk, revealing yet another interesting tidbit about this mysterious place.
Continue along the hallway and follow the stairs down to the lower floor. Approach the door on the right, and examine a table where a bird was previously sitting. Snag that nasty machete, because you’re going to need it. Make your way through the room, heading left and then right. Pass through a door on the right with the wheelchair beside it, avoiding the grumbling wolf you may hear nearby. Look for a small Telegram About Miners clue on the table. Now, back out of that room and go through the dimly lit hallway, which has a fake skeleton hanging in the corner.
Continue down the corridor and enter the Operating Room. Here, we would advise you not to interact with the hand on the table, avoiding it if at all possible. However, in the event that interacting with this hand is unavoidable, be sure to choose to Amputate Fingers rather than Open Bear Trap. The latter will apparently ruin your machete, which you will likely need later on.
There are several clues to discover in the next room. Examine a Strange Skull clue sitting on a shelf to the right. Then, head left to investigate the series of drawers lining the back wall. Collect the items from each of the drawers, including a Death Certificate, a Name Tag, and a Chapel Security Pass, which you will need to open the other door in the room.
Use the pass you just discovered to open the door near the corner. Head up the staircase, triggering a cutscene. Afterward, drop down to the first floor. You’ll be back in the lobby area where you started earlier, but now you are able to open the Chapel doors with your newly acquired pass. Hope it was worth losing those couple fingers!
A wolf suddenly confronts you as you open the Chapel door. This situation should seem familiar if you recall the Guidance Totem from an earlier chapter. The Totem seemed to advise not to attack the wolf, so just let the action timer expire.
Walk to the right side of the room to snag a jacket, and then find a way to grab the revolver on the desk just beyond the cage. Make your way over to the next caged area to examine the Clippings Wall clue. Now move toward the center of the room and head up the small set of steps. There’s a trunk on the ground containing several bones. Take a bone and give it to the wolf by the door to keep him fat and happy.
Head to the right of the trunk and locate a chainlink door labeled with an ‘Exit’ sign. Use the revolver to shoot off the lock and open the door. There is not really anything to find in the hallway or the next room, so just make your way down the large staircase. Move along the passage to another locked door, and follow the screen prompts until the end of the scene, concluding your session with Mike for now. He may be short a few fingers, but at least he’s alive!
The scene now shifts to Matt and Emily. As Matt, head towards the door of the cable car station and take the Axe that is conveniently stuck in the door. Choose to either Help Emily Through or Smash Door. We chose to help Emily, but she refused, causing you to smash the door anyway.
Go inside the control room, where you can check out the map on the wall, as well as a bit of friendly graffiti. After realizing the keys to the control panel are missing, a brief dialogue with Emily occurs. We chose to Disagree rather than Agree, triggering a Butterfly Effect. Our actions lead to a misstep later on, but this option still offers a chance for survival, so feel free to follow along with this choice for now.
Exit the control room and help Em with the ladder. As you follow Emily, stay alert for an important quick time event. Upon your success with the QTE, continue to scoot along the ledge until you reach a staircase around the corner. Head up the stairs, and locate a Guidance Totem on the ground to your left. Keep this scene in mind as you continue further up the path, where you will find a Fortune Totem just after walking across the wooden ledge. Things start to get strange as the couple reach the snowy clifftop, and our time with Emily and Matt concludes for now.
The scene transitions over to Sam, who has spent the last couple hours relaxing in the bath, which we all know is a great place to be during a horror game. Our time with Sam resulted in a positive outcome, so feel free to follow along with our guide to ensure the same results for you.
Guide Sam to the Cinema Room by following the arrows on the balloons. Keep an eye out for any clues as you navigate through the house, and prepare for the impending chaos ahead. Your first decision will be to either Throw Vase or Run. We chose to throw the vase to slow down this nutcase. Once in the bedroom, we chose to Jump rather than Hide, because we’ve seen enough horror movies to know that victims tend to not stay hidden for long in these situations.
Prepare for a QTE as you scamper down the stairs, and then choose to Run again instead of Hide. This leads Sam to a door without a handle. Choose to Pull the shelf rather than Force the door, giving you the means to open the door. Using the screen prompts, quickly lock the door behind you, closing the shutter on the masked maniac.
Break through the door to a graceful landing. Quickly make your way down the long corridor, and this time choose to Hide instead of Run. Prepare for a couple QTE’s, including turning off your flashlight and staying still. If you followed our series of choices, Sam will have evaded the psychopath for now. The chapter concludes back in Dr. Hill’s office, as usual.
Until Dawn Chapter 6 begins where we last left Matt and Emily: at the edge of a cliff as deer strangely approach them. We stayed Calm in this situation rather than Rebuke, and highly suggest you do so too if you want to live. Matt slowly walks through the herd of deer. Again, stay calm and do not lash out. Instead, leave the deer in peace and you will get through without a scratch, triggering a Butterfly Effect.
Keep to the path together until you arrive at the fire tower. Once you get there a motion sensored light will go off. It’s bright, but it will make finding a nearby Guidance Totem easier. Now as Emily, pick it up and take note, as this totem will prove to be quite significant soon. Continue up the stairs and then the series of ladders to reach the top. Inside the fire tower you will notice a radio but ignore it for now.
First, go outside and walk along the side of the tower. You will find an emergency flare box with a flare gun inside. We chose to Give it to Matt instead of Keeping it for ourselves because of a previous Guidance Totem find which showed Emily giving the flare gun to Matt. Keep walking around the perimeter and you will find a fuse box. Turn it on. This will help with the radio. Go back inside and press the green light on the printer to get Beth’s Poster. Make your way to the locker and inside you’ll find Hannah’s Poster. Finally, turn on the radio. A voice comes over the radio saying, “ranger service for Blackwood County, over.” Emily asks for help but the signal is weak. We chose to Comply and Informrather than Persist.
An intense cutscene ensues with some very important QTE’s. We don’t want to spoil these events but we’ll tell you we chose, as Matt, to be Supportive and not Suspicious. Then we chose to be Sarcasticbecause, let’s face it, who could actually be Concerned with Emily? After these decisions you are given the option multiple times to Jump to Safety or Save Emily. We opted to save Emily both times. This triggered a Butterfly Effect.
Remember that flare gun we told you to give to Matt? Now it will come in handy. Sit up and pay close attention with bated breath. Once the on screen target appears move your cursor over it and shoot, otherwise you will watch Matt suffer a gruesome death. You must successfully hit this QTE and shoot the target in order for Matt to survive.
When the screaming and chaos is all over, we are back at the lodge with some old friends: Ashley and Chris. For this segment you will play as Ashley. Simply follow Chris to the lower levels. You’ll pass through the Cinema Room and once you do the door will shut behind you. If you try opening the door in front of you it will be forced shut in your face. The door to the left, as a consequence, will open up as if by a ghost. In fact this is exactly what Ashley thinks she sees once she goes through the door. Chris is skeptical and as a response you can either Insist you saw a ghost of Concede that you are unsure of your own observations. We chose to Insist because it really did look like a ghost, and this is a horror game. Our intuitions seem to be paying off, because things started getting really weird.
Once you enter the creepy room down the dank staircase you will see, to your left, an equally creepy dollhouse. To open the dollhouse you will need a key. While looking for the key feel free to look around the place. You will see the effects of Sam’s decisions when she was chased through here. You should find the key hanging on a left wall at the end of one of the hallways. The “ghost” appears again and this time Chris sees it. Follow it. It leads you back the dollhouse. Now that you have the key go ahead a peak inside. You will find some interesting things, one of them being Hannah’s Diary.
Proceed. Once you are in control of Ashley again, go investigate the noise you heard. In the room down the hall where you found the dollhouse key go through the door on the right. In the room to your right you will find a Hidden Camera between two boxes. In the same room you will find a Lightbulb Catalogue and a very useful pair of scissors. They are so useful they trigger a Butterfly Effect. As Chris continues to make intelligent decisions by steadily walking further and further into a haunted lodge, Ashley stops him and they converse. As Ashley we decided to be Sympathetic instead of Dismissive. Once the conversation ends continue down the hallway and through the doorway to the left. You should come to a room with a some broken pillars. In the corner of the room you will find a package full of Faked Newspapers. Weird.
Proceed past the room and down the stairs. Before you can go down though Ashley stops and tells Chris she has had enough. We decided to be Courageous instead of Reluctant for the sake of potentially finding Sam. If you do the same you will eventually find Batteries and Timers clues further down the hall. You will also find some Photos of Friends on a wall. In the same room with the photos you will see a closed door to the left and a hallway to the right. Go through the closed door to trigger a cutscene. We chose to be Apologetic instead of Unrepentant.
After the cutscene go back from where you came and go down the hallway to the right (right of camera angle). You will arrive at an extremely heavy door, one which Chris struggles to open. Ashley sees something and you must choose to either Follow Chris or Investigate Movement. We weren’t willing to take any chances so we squeezed through the door and continued looking for Sam. Look around the room for anything you might find interesting before you enter the double doors further down. Once you enter those double doors you will immediately see another pair of double doors with circled windows on each. Look around some more and when you’re ready (you really need to be ready) go ahead and walk through those doors of doom.
Inside you will see someone sitting on in a chair, back turned. Probably expecting to see a face taken right out of The Ring, Chris and Ashley spin the chair around and discover it to be a dummy dressed in Sam’s clothes. Chris and Ashley are confused at why someone would dress a dummy in….holy crap, lookout behind you Chris!
A cutscene occurs with some important QTE decisions. Use those scissors you found. Seriously...use them. We instinctively used them and didn’t miss, so we don’t know exactly what would have happened if you missed or didn’t have the scissors in your possession.
Some intense things occur and we completely understand if you quickly make decisions in the spur of the moment. But, we advise you to stay calm and look at your previous Guidance Totems, especially the one where Chris sets a gun down on the table. We decided to follow the guidance of fate and let the timer run down.
Until Dawn Chapter 7 opens with Sam crawling through the basement ventilation shaft just fours hours before dawn. After getting out of the ventilation make your way to the nearby desk where you will find a Psychiatric Report inside. Read it carefully if you want a better understanding of the sort of mess you’re in. On a nearby shelf you should also find Josh’s Cell Phone. Slide to open and read the text message. You will also find a Remembrance Board at the far wall. We highly suggest you inspect this room thoroughly. Once you’ve done your detective work leave the room and walk until you see a door with an open slit. If you peer inside you’ll see the maniac. On a table to the left you’ll find a Voice Recording clue. Go up the stairs closest to the table.
You’ll enter an area with a couple of doors. They are all locked, but you can try opening them if you want. The only doors you can open are the large double doors with circular windows, so head on through when you’re ready. This place should look familiar to you, as it’s the same double doors Chris and Ashley went through, meaning you know what’s in the room. Yup...that Dummy in Sam’s clothes. You’ll also find a Video Camera. Oh, and Mike too.
We thought it was Curious he was here in the same room as us. The other option was to be Shocked. We weren’t though. Mike asks you to unlock the door around the corner. Once you do that a cutscene is triggered and this you’ll want to watch all the way until its abrupt end. We were actually shocked this time.
Apparently Emily is fine after falling to what we thought was her death. Relatively fine, that is. She’s hanging upside down over a void. A few successful QTE options later and she is safe and sound. Again, relatively speaking. Make your way through the mines picking up anything you may find relevant. We couldn’t find anything in our immediate area but that doesn’t mean you won’t. Deeper down we found a mine cart. Interact with it and it will slide down the tracks and break through a large wooden door. Near the crash you may as well try the elevator, but when we tried it the power was off. Search around the area for a way to turn on the power. While searching you may stumble upon a Clocking-In Machine. You will also find a ladder. Don’t go up just yet. Instead walk behind it down a small tracked path and you will find a deliciously disturbing Death Totem. Return to that ladder we mentioned and go on up if you are ready. We apologize in advance.
Turn on your cell phone light to see in the dark and make your way down the narrow corridor where you can interact with a barricade and break through into a spacious room containing a Miner’s Family Photo, a miner’s helmet, and a variety of other things. When you are done exploring start climbing your way out following some QTE prompts. Proceed along the path to find a torch waiting for you near the switch that turns on the power. The elevator should work now. At the base of the stairs you’ll find a Danger Totem, and further into the cavern’s depths you’ll find Beth’s Cross. You’ll also stumble upon another important clue that belongs to Beth.
Unlock the nearby door, find the elevator, step aboard, and ascend. At the top you will notice a stranger patrolling the mines. Stay as still as possible. In our playthrough Emily runs and the stranger begins to chase her. The chase comprises a series of QTE prompts, including an opportunity to throw your torch on a puddle of oil on the ground. We ran into a dead end and decided to Hide instead ofTurn Back. Though the scene ends with the stranger finding her, the next chapter reveals that she is still alive. So hiding will benefit you if you want Emily to live.
The end of the chapter consists of an extended cutscene. We don’t want to spoil anything so we’ll just tell you what we did. We decided to Scold instead of Dismiss and then we chose to be Skepticalinstead of Angry. Soon after we chose to be Aggressive instead of Defensive. Near the end we chose to Disarm instead of Hit. This concludes chapter 7.
With just three hours until dawn, Chapter 8 picks up with Emily once again. After the opening cutscene Grab the flares and use them to light your way. Search around the area to your right. We’re unsure if you find anything interesting on the right, or if it’s even worth exploring, since we decided to go left and could not come back up. However, we can tell you that we got Emily to survive this section of the game, so if you follow our steps you should be successful as well.
Go left and drop down into the tunnels, where you will discover a Fortune Totem on the ground to the right. Be sure to review this Totem carefully, as it shows Mike choosing not to fire a gun, which is crucial for later in this chapter.
Continue down the linear path, until you are tasked with squeezing through a crack in the wall. Be prepared for a series of quick time events (QTE’s) to pop on the screen, as a frantic chase scene ensues. Successfully hit the QTE’s along the bridge, and when prompted, choose to Go Right instead of Go Left. However, you’ll end up going left anyway. When you get to the elevator, be ready to hold your controller perfectly still!
Once the elevator ride ends, get ready for another series of quick time events. At the conveyor belt, we chose to Stay On instead of Leap Off. Do your best to hit one more QTE at the end of the conveyor to ensure your survival. You’ll have a few seconds to catch your breath and just a couple QTE’s before safely escaping.
As Emily is running, the scene will shift to the lodge where you can finally regroup with the others. At the next conversation, we opted to be Confused both times rather than Concerned. When answering the door a few moments later, we decided to Suggest, not Demand.
There is a possibility of losing Chris after this next segment. In our playthrough, we end up losing Chris, due to a lack of proper inversion mechanics rather than poor judgement, which unfortunately happened to us earlier as well. Hopefully you can aim without issue.
As you follow the stranger out into the perilous wilderness, carefully note the details he mentions pertaining to the Wendigo. These details will aid you in the events to come. For example, you can slow down a Wendigo with a shotgun, but cannot kill them with it. Actually, you should avoid killing them if at all possible, but should opt to burn them with fire when necessary. Also, it is very important to note that they are sensitive to motion, and thus can’t see you if you don’t move.
Go with the stranger to the shed and back out again. You must carefully follow what he says. When he tells you not to move, you must keep your controller perfectly still. We messed this part up at the last second, and soon afterward the stranger gets killed. However, it’s unclear if this was the direct result of our mishap or not, though there’s a chance it was.
When you regain control of Chris, you will have to fend off a series of Wendigo attacks. When they pounce on you, aim and fire your shotgun at them. As was mentioned earlier, this won’t kill them but it does slow them down. You must successfully shoot each Wendigo to ensure Chris survives. Unfortunately, we slipped up on the last shot, leading to Chris’ demise. If you are used to non-inversion, then you will likely not have the same trouble. Also, from a trusted source we know that in order to save Chris, you will have needed to have done everything you could to save Ashley throughout the game, or else she will not open the door for you at the end of this scene, leaving you to out to die. If you have saved Ashley whenever possible and nailed all the quick time events, Chris should be fine. Well, relatively fine.
Tensions rise as the remaining group members gather in the basement. As Mike, decide whether or not to shoot Emily. If you want to save Emily, then the choice is pretty clear. Also, you probably remember that Totem from earlier where Mike lowered his gun. Resist the temptation, as you will soon find out that shooting her is unnecessary.
You will receive the Journal clue as you gain control of Ashley. Study the information on the Wendigo throughout the notebook. As you flip through the sections, it reveals that Emily was in fact not at risk via being bitten. When prompted, choose to Reassure instead of Conceal, as this seems to have a fairly positive outcome.
The chapter concludes with the infamous Dr. Hill. During the session, we opted to say I’m So Sorryinstead of It Was Just a Game, wrapping up Chapter 8.
Until Dawn chapter 9 opens with you in control of Mike. We would like to inform you that though we will continue to do our best to keep this walkthrough spoiler free we may need to reveal specific details in order to help you make informed and wise decisions. So read this walkthrough knowing some level of spoilers may be present. Without further ado, let’s begin.
After Mike locks the door behind him continue down the messy hallway. There are a lot of nooks and crannies in this area so feel free to explore. but explore carefully as usual. So go ahead and go to the left if you wish. In the end, however, you will have to go to the right and head up the stairs to the left. Walk around the banister and you will find a Death Totem.
Once you leave the room pass through the door with an exit sign on the wall nearby. Explore this room and pick up anything you want. Once you do that go up the stairs at the end of the room and you’ll soon find a hole in the ground. Drop down it and you will be inside the small area enclosed by a chain-link door that you couldn’t get through from the otherwise. Pick up the torch and shotgun. You will be needing those things. Seriously, listen to us. You will need them.
In the center of the room you will find a cigar. Directly across the room (left from the cigar) you will find a door with a giant piece of marble-white debris next to it. Go through the door and pick up the Danger Totem on the ground to the left of a giant hole in the wall. Outside you should see a Makeshift Grave. Once you’re done freezing your butt off go back inside where you found the cigar. Immediately to the left of the cigar is another chain-link door but it is locked. Shoot the lock with your newly acquired shotgun. You will meet an old friend via an updated Butterfly Effect. Since we didn’t kick this particular dog earlier in Chapter 5 this dog now is our best friend.
With your new friend leading the way walk outside and make your way to the next building. Open the door with the lever and squeeze through. Go down the stairs and to your left where it says detention area. You will find the Doctor’s Report on a table in the room. Exit and now go to where wolfie, your dog, is. You will discover the remains of the other dog. Go into the room to the left to find some creepy writing on the wall, and then proceed to follow wolfie down the right corridor. Follow the linear path through the broken wall at the end and move towers the camera when you see a B-Wings sign hanging above an archway. In the room to Mike’s left (right of the camera,) at the end of the hall, enjoy watching an Old Film Reel. Exit and proceed towards the camera again until you reach a room with what look to be Vesalius medical drawings hanging on the walls. There is a desk with a phone, a rusted lamp, and some books. Open the drawer to find a Case Study Dossier clue. Flip through its contents and enjoy. Sometimes ignorance is bliss. Push open the wooden door with light leaking through and it will lead you to a room with a corpse holding a note.
When you are done exploring these rooms retrace your steps and find your dog. Go through the archway with the B-Wing sign now. Wolfie is waiting for you to enter the center room. A box will fall. Don’t shoot it because a Wendigo is staring at you. Shoot him instead. Since Wendigos aren’t typically hurt by bullets a chase ensues. We ran Left instead of Straight Ahead. Push the cabinet in front of the door and run into the next room locking the door behind you. Another Wendigo is in there. Don’t move and definitely don’t let the bottle roll off the table.
The next scene comprises a series of QTE options that really pressure you into following them through. We chose not to shoot any Wendigos in this section given that killing Wendigos isn’t the best option. Of course Mike doesn’t know this since he wasn’t present when the journal was discovered. But we do. Unfortunately, we eventually decided to kill a couple of them by shooting a rolling oil barrel when we were backed into a corner. You can too if you simply follow the on-screen prompts. We decided to shoot the barrel instead of them because earlier we learned that fire burns the armor off their skin and potentially kills them.
So you think you’re tough now because you killed some Wendigos. Well, the action isn’t quite over. As you proceed you’ll have more QTE prompts to respond to. Shoot open the door and choose to eitherBarricade it or Escape. We chose to simply Escape down a hole but unfortunately our little wolfie didn’t make it. It was a Butterfly Effect so we are unsure exactly how it would have played out if we had barricaded the door instead. Continue to escape and eventually you’ll face off against two Wendigos. We chose to keep shooting them instead of shooting the barrels. There seemed to be way too many barrels and the explosions would have surely meant our demise. A Wendigo leaps at Mike and the screen goes black. He’s fine. Don’t worry.
The scene will shift back to Ashley and the others. As Ashley, walk down the hall to a small alcove on the left. Pick up the Danger Totem on the floor, and head back to the corridor.
Lift the circular grate on the floor leading to the lower tunnels. It doesn’t look very inviting, but time to head on down. Ashley gets separated from the others, and will be confronted with a choice to eitherInvestigate Voice, or Rejoin Group. If you recall what the notebook said about Wendigos mimicking voices, you might infer that investigating the voice is not a good idea. Good call. This keeps Ashley alive. Rejoin the group and keep going.
After a brief cutscene, your control will change over to Sam, who must climb a rock wall. She seems to know what she’s doing, so just make sure to successfully hit those QTE’s to live up to her skills. At the top, you’ll find two paths. We ended up not exploring the path on the right, instead opting to Drop Down the path on the left. However, there could have been collectibles here that we missed. Explore the right side if you feel like it, since it is unlikely Sam would die here. You will probably eventually have to end up going to the left anyway.
Follow along the curvy path until you discover a chain-link door. The door is stuck, so use the convenient shovel nearby to wedge it open. Head through this door and then through another metal door on the left.
Apparently, if you had Mike shoot one of the barrels in the last Wendigo scene, he would meet up with Sam here. However, if you followed our steps, Sam is still alone at this point. Go outside and follow the path on the right. There may have been a collectible on the left, but we didn’t look there. Explore at your own risk. Continue down the path on the right until the path forks. We kept to the right once again, where we crossed a bridge and arrived at an iron gate. Bust open the gate and proceed through.
Remove the wooden beam from the double doors and open it to find Mike struggling with a Wendigo. Had you shot those barrels earlier as Mike, he would have met up with Sam by now. Nice going. Sprint forward and whack the Wendigo using your shovel, giving Mike just enough time to get up. The chapter concludes here.

With only one hour remaining until dawn, the final chapter kicks off with players controlling Josh, who is wandering about the mines. There is little to do here other than watch the freak show unravel. There’s a brief moment where you must punch a pig head. Yes, it’s as crazy as it sounds.
The scene will shift back to Sam and Mike as they explore the mines. Before going into the water, look around the path to the left. Discover a shallow grave containing Beth’s Watch. Backtrack toward the water, but don’t go in yet. There’s a Fortune Totem on the ground to the right of the water entrance. Pick up the Totem, then prepare to get wet.
As you control Sam, drop into the water with Mike. Wade through the water toward the left side. Missing this part risks getting Josh killed later, so if you want to keep him alive make sure to follow us here. Climb out of the water using the ledge on the left. You’ll discover a Scrawled Journal clue, which triggers a Butterfly Effect pertaining to Josh. As you flip through the journal, things start to make a lot more sense.
Drop back into the water and climb out on the other side this time. Open up a door with ‘Danger’ printed on it. Sorry in advance. What you find is nothing really life threatening, but definitely a bit unpleasant.
After the next cutscene ensues, you regain control of Josh. Walk forward along the path, following Mike. Explore a path on the left to discover a Fortune Totem. Continue following Mike back through the water room he and Sam came from, and then drop into the water with Mike. Here goes nothing!
When the cutscene ends, we regain control as sam for a bit, and must follow a series of QTE prompts to scale a wall out of the mines. As the path forks, investigate the path to the right until you reach a fallen tree, picking up the Danger Totem on the other side of the trail.
Now, head down the path to the left. Continue until you reach a small ice cold pond. Take a dip into the freezing water, and wade your way to the other side. Climb out and walk forward along the path. You’ll slip down a rock wall, leading to a brief chase scene with several QTE’s soon after. Sam should survive through this scene if you are successful, which we were.
Sam meets Mike once again at the door to the lodge. Break in, and begin heading back down to the basement. Keep descending until you eventually get interrupted by a cutscene. Note the interaction between Emily and Ashley, and then proceed to Lock the door rather than Follow Mike.
Hold still once you get upstairs. When prompted, choose to Save Mike and not Run to Switch. The general rule of thumb from here on out will be to Hide whenever you can, to ensure saving as many members of the group as possible.
Hopefully through our guide you were able to learn from our actions and mistakes in order to successfully save as many characters as possible during your playthrough.

