Diablo III
The Fallen Star
You will begin the game on the Road Next to the Cliff. Proceed east and eliminate a few Risen along the way. You will soon have to turn north. Approach the gates of a town named New Tristram.

Captain Rumford should be standing in front of the closed gates and additional defenders can be found on the palisade. Talk to the captain to receive your first task.

Kill the Risen attacking the gates
Monsters will start appearing close to the woods to the east. Join the defenders and start attacking them. You'll encounter a small group at first, however once the undead have been defeated a much a larger group will join the battle.

Talk to Leah in the Slaughtered Calf Inn
Enter the city and proceed towards the town square where the inn can be found. The building you're looking for, as any other quest objective, is marked on your map with a pulsating circle. Enter the inn, find Leah next to the bar and talk to her.

Kill the Risen
During the conversation a bunch of people standing in the inn will suddenly turn into Risen. Leah will help you in getting rid of them.
Talk to Leah in the Slaughtered Calf Inn
Finish your conversation with Leah that was interrupted by the attack of the Risen. Leah's Room can be found nearby, but aside from her journal you won't find anything interesting there.
Talk to Captain Rumford at the gate to New Tristram
Exit the inn and return to the gates. You must talk to Captain Rumford again.
Kill the Wretched Mother
New Risen will attack from the north. They are being breeded by the Wretched Mother, so you must focus on killing her as soon as possible in order to prevent new monsters from joining the battle.
Kill the Wretched Queen in the Old Ruins
Bonus: Kill the Wretched Mothers (3)
Head north, choosing a narrow path along the way. You should find yourself using Old Tristram Road and it's recommended that you explore this location.

The area is swarming with the Risen, Quill Fiends and Walking Corpses (don't forget that you must also kill Crawling Torsos once they're defeated). There are a lot of corpses of Tristram defenders here, as well as snags, piles of bones and other objects that you may examine in order to collect gold and valuable items. You shouldn't have any problems locating three Wretched Mothers and killing them will allow you to complete the bonus objective. The area isn't too big and you should stick to the main road if you want to move ahead.

The main path will soon narrow down and you'll enter the Old Ruins. This is the old Tristram and it's being occupied by the same creatures you've previously encountered on the Old Tristram Road. The Wretched Queen can be found in the south-eastern part of the town and she's marked with a red dot on your map.

The queen is quite resistant, but she's slow. She also continues to breed new Risen, so you should focus only on killing her.
Use the Old Ruins waypoint
Before you decide to use the waypoint you should explore the entire area. For example, in the ruins of Griswold's workshop (he's the blacksmith from the first Diablo game) you'll find an armor stand. Click on the waypoint and travel to New Tristram.

Talk to Captain Rumford in New Tristram
Captain Rumford should be standing close to the waypoint. The conversation with the captain will end this quest and you'll receive experience points (EXP) and gold as a reward.

The Legacy of Cain
This quest can be obtained by talking to Leah. She's standing in the main square of New Tristram.

Use the New Tristram waypoint to go to the Old Ruins
Click on the waypoint and travel to the Old Ruins.
Go to the Old Tristram gate

Once you've used the waypoint to travel to the old Tristram you must followLeah to the gate. The archer will open the gate, allowing you to move on.
Find Adria's Hut
This task begins on the Old Tristram Road. Follow the narrow path and you'll eventually locate Adria's Hut.

Search Adria's Hut
Enter the hut. You and Leah will locate an entrance to a Hidden Cellar.
Enter the Hidden Cellar in Adria's Hut
Leah should automatically enter the cellar and you must follow her.
Explore the Hidden Cellar
The cellar isn't too big and therefore you'll soon discover that Adria was a witch.
Kill Captain Daltyn and the Risen
An ex-guard captain will soon appear in the central part of the cellar. He will be accompanied by his servants and they must all die. Captain Daltyn isn't a demanding opponent. He's slow and even though he's resistant his attacks don't inflict a lot of damage. It's recommended to get rid of his servants before attacking him.
Talk to Leah in the Hidden Cellar
After you've defeated the captain you'll have to talk to Leah. She will leave you here and you'll continue the journey alone.
Go to the Cathedral
Exit the Hidden Cellar and expect to be attacked by a group of Risen. The only way to reach the cathedral is to go right. You'll want to go back to the Old Tristram Road.

Keep following the narrow path, killing more Risen along the way. It shouldn't take long for you to reach the Cathedral. Open the door and enter the building.
Enter Cathedral Level 1
There are some monsters in the corridor and you must kill them. Find a crater and descend, heading towards Cathedral Level 1.

Search for signs of Deckard Cain in the Cathedral
You'll begin on the first level, however Deckard Cain isn't here. This means that you must locate a passageway to the next area.

The location you've entered is larger and it has a lot of corridors. You'll encounter new types of monsters here. Ravenous Dead are slow and they shouldn't be considered a major threat unless they operate as a group. Watch out for Grotesques, because they explode when they die and they leave behind crawling monsters called Corpse Worms. The cathedral is also a home to Carrion Bats and they inflict lightning damage. Prevent them from cornering you, because they may become a huge threat even to a barbarian.

Continue exploring the cathedral until you find an exit leading to Leoric's Passage.
Kill the skeletons attacking Deckard Cain
You'll witness a short cut-scene and it'll inform you that Deckard Cain is in danger. Descend the stairs and start defending Cain. There's a boss among the skeletons and it's named Headcleaver. Thankfully this battle shouldn't be too difficult, because the boss will die quickly and also the injuries it inflicts aren't serious.
Talk to Deckard Cain in Leoric's Passage
Keep fighting until it's safe and then talk to Cain.
Follow Deckard Cain
Deckard will open a passageway leading topside and you must follow him to find your way to the Cathedral Garden.
Talk to Leah in New Tristram

There's a waypoint near the entrance you've used to exit the cathedral. Use it to travel to New Tristram.

Talk to Leah in New Tristram
Talk to Leah to finish this quest.

A Shattered Crown
Don't forget that you've rescued Deckard Cain - talk to him to find out more about king Leoric. Cain will also give you this quest.
Talk to the blacksmith Haedrig Eamon
Start at the town square and use the path located to your left. Pass by the townsfolk and merchants until you've located the blacksmith standing at the crossroads. Talk to him.

Kill the Ravenous Dead in the Cellar of the Damned
Follow the blacksmith to the Cellar of the Damned and enter it.
You'll find a short corridor here and a door. Destroy the door to enter a new chamber. There are more than a dozen Ravenous Dead in this room for you to kill.

Kill Mira Eamon
You'll find the blacksmith's wife at the end of the cellar and sadly you'll have to kill her as well. Mira Eamon is considered a boss, so she's more demanding than standard monsters. She's very slow, however she deals heavy blows and spits venom if you move away from her (poison damage).

Talk to Haedrig Eamon in the Cellar of the Damned
After you've killed the boss talk to Haedrig in order to complete his assignment.

Open the northwest gate
Exit the cellar and return to the gate you've probably noticed earlier on when you were following the blacksmith. Enter the new area and be ready to engage a group of Scavengers in combat. You can return to the city if you want some assistance in killing them.

Find the Cemetery of the Forsaken in the Weeping Hollow
Travel to the other side of the bridge in order to enter the Weeping Hollow. This is a large area that's occupied mostly by the Hungry Corpses and the Retching Cadaversthat breed them. You'll also encounter Grotesques and very fast Scavengers. Watch out for the crawling Ravenous Dead coming out of the bushes.

Since this is an open area you may find yourself encountering a new group of monsters while trying to run away from the previous one. As a result you should be exploring the map slowly if your character can't handle so many enemies, so that you won't have to fight too many of them at the same time. You may find a corpse of Haedrig's apprentice in this location and you'll inform the blacksmith about this during your next encounter.

The best way to find the cemetery is to move near the edge of the map. Find a narrow passageway leading to the gate of the Cemetery of the Forsaken.

Search the Chancellor's Altar beneath the Cemetery of the Forsaken
You are standing in the cemetery. There's a waypoint next to the gate and you should approach it in order to activate it.

You must check three Defiled Crypts. The entrances to them are located on the cemetery grounds.

Only one of the Defiled Crypts mentioned above has a second level and this is the one you must choose in order to proceed with the next part of the quest (the remaining crypts have only one level). As for the cemetery itself, it's guarded mostly by Skeletons, small Imps and several other types of monsters you've already encounter before. You may be attacked by bosses in the two less important crypts and they may have additional abilities like knockback or teleportation.

Go back to the Defiled Crypt with the passageway leading to level two and choose it.

Begin exploring Defiled Crypt Level 2 which is rather small. Approach a door and be ready to attack a monster named Manglemaw. This creature has more than 300 health points (three times as much health as the blacksmith's wife you've killed not long ago), so it's tough. Thankfully the boss is slow and uses knockback instead of serious blows. Once you've killed the monster open a new door to proceed to the Chancellor's Tomb.

A Tomb Guard can be found in this small area and it can summon Skeletons. Kill the guard to prevent it from summoning too many servants.

The final section of the tomb is the chancellor's altar where his crown can be found.
Kill Chancellor Eamon
Chancellor Eamon will appear when you'll attempt to take the crown. He's a tough opponent and you should also know that he can teleport himself across the battlefield. The chancellor will perform freeze attacks each time you're not standing close to him and as a result you may receive serious damage and you may also be slowed down. If you manage to get closer the chancellor will be using knockback attacks in addition to trying to slow down your moves. Overall this duel isn't too easy and you must also control your health bar.
Take the Skeleton King's crown from the Chancellor's Altar
You may approach the altar to pick up the Skeleton King's crown.
Use the Town Portal to return to New Tristram
Notice that you've obtained a powerful spell which allows you to teleport yourself to the nearest town. Press the T key (or a button on the lower panel) and wait until you're transported to your destination.

Talk to Haedrig Eamon
You will appear in the town square. Find the blacksmith and talk to him. He will repair the crown and you will finish this quest.

Reign of the Black King

This quest can be unlocked by talking to Deckard Cain.

Use the New Tristram waypoint to return to the Cathedral Garden

As mentioned in the description, use a waypoint to travel to the Cathedral Garden.

Enter Leoric's Passage
You must choose the same path as the one you've used after you've rescued Deckard Cain. Proceed to the passageway leading to Leoric's Passage (you're travelling to the place where you've first met Cain).

Go to the Cathedral Level 2 through the ornate door
Go to the place where you've found Cain earlier in the game. Proceed to your right, descend the stairs, open the golden door and enter the new area.

Descend through the Cathedral
You're standing in Cathedral Level 2. This is a rather large area that's populated by plenty of monsters. Watch out for Tomb Guardians, because they can summon Skeletons.

Your objective is to find a passageway leading to the next level of the cathedral. Once you use it you'll find yourself in Cathedral Level 3. Head left here.
Give aid to the Warrior
You will encounter a group of Necromantic Minions here and you'll notice that they're using magic to hold a warrior in prison. Kill them all and also deal with other monsters present in the area. Once you've saved the warrior talk to him.

Find the warrior's stolen items
Use the stairs to head up and search the nearby chambers. Your current objective is located directly in front of you and there are some monsters in your way.

Dark Cultists are guarding the chest with stolen items. Kill them and then open the chest so that the warrior can reclaim his things. The Templar will join you and you'll also find a waypoint nearby.

Find and kill Jondar
Head forward, travelling through corridors and using stairs along the way. You will soon find a door that's protected by black magic, but thankfully your new companion will deal with this problem. Head down and it shouldn't take long for you to reach Jondar's hideout.

Jondar can summon Skeletons and he is also capable of firing projectiles that inflict poison damage. You should also notice that he's incredibly fast. Once you've defeated him your companion will finish him off.
Join the Templar
You will now have to decide whether you want the templar to continue following you or not. It's highly recommended that you agree to his offer. Once he's a member of your team open his character panel - it's used to change his equipment and to activate his skills.
Search for the Royal Crypts
Descend the stairs and use the passageway leading to Cathedral Level 4.

This location is huge and it contains a lot of corridors and chambers. You will encounter monsters that you already know as well as some new types of creatures. Skeletal Shieldbearers are equipped with shields and they can use them to defend themselves against your attacks. Skeletal Archers are equipped with bows and they can become a threat if they operate as a large group. Don't forget about killing the Tomb Guardians as soon as possible in order to prevent them from summoning too many Skeletons. Your objective here is to locate a passageway leading to the Royal Crypts.

Find the Crypt of the Skeleton King
We're almost there. Choose the only available corridor, defeat a new group Skeletons and locate a waypoint. Approach Leoric's sword to witness a retrospection of the king's death. You may proceed forward.

You'll meet Skeleton King here once again. Notice four Activated Pillars that are responsible for summoning Skeletons to the battlefield. You must destroy them, but be careful, because you'll be dealing with dozens of Skeletons. In addition to that you'll find yourself under fire from the Skeletal Archers. Keep fighting until you've destroyed the pillars and then follow the Skeleton King to the next area.

Keep heading forward until you've located a passageway leading to the Crypt of the Skeleton King.

Enter the Crypt of the Skeleton King
Choose the passageway to find your way to the Crypt of the Skeleton King. You'll witness a cut-scene here showing the Skeleton King.

Kill the Returned
Proceed to your right. The king will close the gate and send a group of the Returned after you. The monsters you're fighting are stronger versions of skeletons. Once they're gone the gate will open again.
Place Leoric's crown on the Skeleton King
Head up the stairs and approach the throne where the king's body can be found. Place the crown on his head, bringing him back to life and starting a boss battle.

Kill the Skeleton King
The Skeleton King is constantly summoning the Returned (stronger skeletons) and the Forgotten Soldiers (skeletons with shields). He can teleport himself across the battlefield and he has a lot of health points. You should also know that thanks to his long weapon he can attack you from a larger distance. When you're attacking him you should focus on killing the summoned creatures quickly, so that you'll have a chance to injure the king before he can call more monsters for help. If the creatures he's summoned aren't standing in your way you can also use the opportunity to approach him right away before he teleports to another location.

Enter the Desolate Chamber
Once you've killed the king enter the chamber located underneath the throne.

Talk to the Stranger in the Desolate Chamber
You've reached the point of impact. Descend to the crater to find Stranger. You must talk to him.

Return to New Tristram
Head left to locate a waypoint. Use it to travel to New Tristram.

Talk to Deckard Cain
Talk to the old man to end this quest (Cain can always be found on the main square).

Sword of the Stranger
Talk to Cain again to start this new quest.
Go to the Fields of Misery
Stranger will remain with Deckard and Leah in the city and meanwhile you will be tasked with a job of going to the Fields of Misery. Use a waypoint located in the middle of the town's square and travel to the Cemetery of the Forsaken.

Once you've arrived at the cemetery travel north-west and walk through an opened gate. You must cross the bridge and it shouldn't take long until you've reached the Fields of Misery.

Search for the Khazra Den in the Fields of Misery
This is the biggest location you will have a chance to visit in Act I and you shouldn't be surprised to hear that you will encounter new types of enemies here. Some of the most important ones are: Moon Clan Warriors, Wood Wraiths(they leave poisonous remains after they're defeated), Burrowing Leapers (they emerge from the ground and they're extremely fast), Plague Carrier (they are breeded by Plague Nests and they can fly) and Savage Beasts (they're very large and they like to charge at the main character). There's also a new waypoint in this area, as well as several dungeons. I guess I don't have to add that you should spend a lot of time here to cover as much area as possible.

Your main objective is to locate the Khazra Den and it can be achieved by exploring the Fields of Misery thoroughly. Enter the den with a plan of finding the first part of the sword.

Find the Glowing Sword Shard in the Khazra Den
The den isn't a large location and therefore it shouldn't take long for you to encounter a group of Enraged Zealots. Killing them will result in Mahda's arrival and after a short conversation she will summon a dozen more Enraged Zealots. Eliminate all hostile creatures.
Take the Glowing Sword Shard (1)
Maghda will disappear and you can collect the first part of the sword.

Take the sword piece back to Cain
Use the town portal spell to return to New Tristram. Speak with Deckard Cain here to officially end this quest.


The Broken Blade
Talk to Leah. Doing this will result in her joining you in the next adventure.

Go to the Drowned Temple
Use a waypoint to travel to the Fields of Misery. Once you're there locate a passageway leading to The Old Mill.

It's best to find the main path and to remain on it during the journey. Keep moving forward until you encounter a Scoundrel who will ask you for help.

Follow the Scoundrel
Follow the Scoundrel to the mill.

Talk to the Brigand
Talk to one of the Brigands. Sadly the negotiations about letting the innocent woman go will end in a failure.

Kill the Brigands
Kill all the Brigands that are guarding the woman. Another group will soon exit a nearby a house and one more group will arrive from your left. You must kill all enemy units.

Speak with the Scoundrel
Approach the Scoundrel to have a word with him. He will join your team.

Take the Scoundrel north to the waypoint
Choose the northern gate to return to the Fields of Misery. Follow a narrow path until you've reached a new waypoint. Scoundrel will offer his services to you here, however if you agree to that you will have to say goodbye to the Templar. It's worth knowing that if you let the Templar go he will return to the town square in New Tristram and therefore you will be allowed to change your mind again if you won't find the new party member helpful.

Go to the Drowned Temple
Descend the stairs to reach the temple.

Talk to Alaric
Use the next set of stairs and then talk to Alaric.

Go to the Festering Woods
Follow Alaric by going to your right and wait until he has repaired a bridge, allowing you to move on with your journey. Cross the bridge to enter the dark forest.

Retrieve the Beacon of Honor from Warrior's Rest

Retrieve the Beacon of Light from the Crypt of the Ancients
The Festering Woods are a rather large location and aside from the well-known monsters you'll also encounter several new types of creatures here. Thankfully most of them won't be a serious threat. You should only watch for Enraged Phantoms, because they like to appear and disappear without warning and they can slow you down. It's worth adding that there's a new waypoint in the forest.

Your primary objective is to locate entrances to two underground locations - to Warrior's Rest and to Crypt of the Ancients. Each dungeon contains one of the artifacts you seek.

Crypt of the Ancients is being occupied by Returned Summoners and by the standard versions of the Returned that are being summoned to the battlefield. As usual you should always begin by killing all the summoners you've encountered. Be careful while exploring the crypt, because it's big and you'll be dealing with large groups of monsters.

Make sure you've killed all monsters and take the Beacon of Light from the pedestal. The area where the beacon is being stored is small, so you can't miss it.

Warrior's Rest is a fairly small location and you'll be dealing mostly with skeletons and archers while exploring it.

Continue exploring the crypt until you've located the Beacon of Honor.
Beacons placed on pedestals
Return to the Festering Woods, locate a waypoint mentioned earlier in the text and once you've found it use it to travel to the Drowned Temple. Alternatively you can cast a town portal spell to return to New Tristram and then interact with the waypoint located in the town's square. Either way you must return to the area where you've first met Alaric. There are two pedestals to the left and to the right of Alaric and you must place the beacons on them.

Enter the Drowned Temple
Head down to meet with Alaric. An entrance to the temple will open.

Explore the Drowned Temple
You may begin exploring the Drowned Temple. Cross a narrow bridge, eliminating Returned Summoners and the Returned along the way. You'll soon encounter Ezek the Prophet and thankfully he's very easy to kill, because his attacks are slow and he's not that tough. Besides you can count on Leah and on your mercenary to help you.

Soon before his death Ezek the Prophet will summon three of his brothers to help him - Brother Moek, Brother Lareland Brother Karel. They're weaker than him, however there's three of them and their attacks are much faster. Aside from the main boss and the three brothers you'll also have to watch out for several Returned Archers, especially since you can't hide from them anywhere.

Talk to Alaric in the Drowned Temple
Once you've killed all enemies locate Alaric standing where you've first encountered Ezek and talk to him.

Secure the Glowing Sword Shard
Notice that a nearby passageway was opened. Head over there and expect to have a second encounter with Maghda. This time she will summon several Dark Zealots.

Get the Glowing Sword Shard
Deal with the zealots and once it's safe collect the second part of the sword.

Return the Glowing Sword Shard to New Tristram
Travel back to New Tristram to end this quest.

The Doom in Wortham
Speak with Stranger to receive a new quest.
Talk to the Ferryman
Go to the western part of the town. Once you've reached the crossroads where you've met with Haedrig Eamon earlier in the game go to your left. Locate the Ferryman and talk to him in order to travel to Wortham.

Travel to the center of Wortham
The location you've entered has suffered almost total annihilation. Head to your left, killing more than a dozen of Dark Zealots along the way. You may also encounter Dark Evokers and you should know they can cast spells.

Kill the Cultists outside the chapel
Stay on the main path and it shouldn't take long to reach the chapel. A new group of Dark Zealots will probably be waiting for you here.

Kill Urzel Mordreg
Maghda will suddenly appear near your position. She will summon new groups of Dark Zealots and Dark Evokers, as well as a boss - Urzel Mordreg. The boss and the evokers are capable of summoning Dark Hellions, so they should be the ones to die first. If you get overrun don't forget that you can flee south.

Kill the Dark Berserkers (3)
That's not all, because after you've killed the boss and all the other monsters Maghda will summon three more enemies called Dark Berserkers. They don't have a lot of life points, however they can use a very powerful bashing attack. They're also quite fast.

Talk to the Priest
Once you've eliminated all monsters from all groups talk to the Priest standing in front of the chapel.
Enter the Wortham Chapel Cellar
Leah will decide to return to New Tristram and you will have to enter the Wortham Chapel Cellar (the entrance can be found on the side of the chapel).

Search for the Sword Hilt
There's nothing here except for Maghda.

Enter Cain's House in New Tristram
Listen to a short conversation and then find a waypoint in order to safely return to New Tristram. Cain's house can be found near the town's square, close to the place where you've talked to the old man during previous visits. Enter the house and watch a cut-scene involving Maghda, Leah, Stranger and Deckard Cain. Once the cut-scene has ended you'll end up in the square with Leah and you'll also end this quest.

Trailing the Coven
Talk to Leah after you've left Cain's House in Tristram and she'll tell you where to go next.
Enter the Caves of Araneae above Wortham
Use the waypoint to travel to Wortham Chapel Cellar. Exit the cellar to end up in Wortham again. Head left to find yourself standing in front of the chapel and then travel north, heading towards a gate.

Keep moving forward until you've reached Wortham Bluffs. I suggest that you use your map here to find your way to your current destination. You shouldn't encounter any creatures in this area. Cross the bridge and head down to find the entrance to Caverns of Araneae.

Search for the chamber of Queen Araneae
This is a large location that's occupied by various types of spiders, as well as by Ghouls. Small Spiderlings won't do you any harm unless you're attacked by a horde. Arachnid Horrors are slightly larger and they can spit webs at you, slowing down your movements. The largest monsters are Toxic Lurkers. They can also slow you down and the damage they inflict is far greater. You should know that spiders can appear on the edges of the map, drop down from ceilings and jump out of cocoons you encounter during your exploration.

Your primary objective is to locate the passageway leading to the queen's chamber. The map can help you in your search, because an arrow will appear on it once you're close to the exit.

Talk to the woman trapped in the web
Once you're inside the Chamber of Queen Araneae head forward and you'll notice a trapped woman. Approach her in order to initiate a conversation.

Kill Queen Araneae
The Spider Queen will soon show up and the boss battle will commence. The queen can spit at you and it'll always slow you down. She can also create green fluid stains with poison and inflict major injuries in direct combat. Each time the queen has suffered some injuries she will run away to hide and you'll have to deal with her servants.

Harvest the Pool of Venom in the Chamber of Queen Araneae
After you've defeated the queen collect some venom. The pool you're looking for is located in the area where the boss battle took place, close to the trapped woman.

Free Karyna with the venom
Use the venom on the trapped woman to destroy the webs and to release her.

Go out into the Highlands Crossing
Follow Karyna to the exit from this lair. The passageway is located behind the area where she was being held.

Talk to Karyna
You'll soon exit the lair and find yourself in a new area called Highlands Crossing. Talk to Karyna, because she'll explain you the next step. Descend the stairs after the conversation has ended.
Find the Khazra Staff
This is a rather small area, however you can find a new waypoint here. Once you've activated the waypoint follow the path to reach a bridge.

Notice that you've entered Southern Highlands. This is a very large location, however it's not as vast as Fields of Misery. It shouldn't come as a surprise that you'll encounter various types of monsters here. Withermoths are huge mantis's and they usually hide near the trees to appear out of nowhere. Highland Walkers are walking trees and they specialize in deploying poisonous traps. Savage Beasts are not only large, but they can also charge at the main character to throw him back. There are also several clan members in this area: Dark Moon Clan Warriors use swords, Dark Moon Clan Impalers throw javelins and Dark Moon Clan Shaman know magic. Be careful, because a large group of these monsters, especially if accompanied by a champion or a boss, can be a serious threat to the safety of your team.

Your primary objective at the moment is to locate Karyna's Lost Cart. Inspect the cart to find the Khazra Staff, however be careful, because as soon as you've collected this item a group of Dark Moon clan members will emerge from the ground.

Approach the Khazra barricade
Your next task is to locate the Khazra barricade. Once you're close enough to your destination a gate will open and a group of Dark Clan monsters will rush out, starting a new battle.

Find Leoric's Manor Courtyard
Keep heading up the barricade, using a narrow path and eliminating all the monsters you encounter. You'll be dealing with the same creatures as in the highlands, however since you won't have a lot of space to move around you'll have to prevent them from surrounding you.
Eventually you will reach the Northern Highlands. Find a waypoint here and be ready to engage new monsters in combat. It's recommended to explore this entire area, however your main objective is to locate a large building. There's a passageway on the side of the building, but you shouldn't choose it right away, because there are several groups of monsters there.

Once you've used the passageway mentioned above you'll find yourself in Leoric's Hunting Grounds. This is the last location you must explore before reaching your final destination. The opponents remain the same and the area isn't that big. Locate a bridge leading to Leoric's Manor Courtyard.

There are several Dark Cultists in the manor's courtyard. Once they're gone locate the entrance to the manor itself.

Enter Leoric's Manor
You must be very careful, because you'll be "greeted" by a very large group of monsters as soon as you've entered the courtyard and there isn't a lot of space where you can hide or run away to. You'll be dealing mostly with Dark Cultists and Dark Berserkers. Once they're all gone start exploring the manor, including the side chambers. Your destination is a large chamber with a staircase leading down.

Kill the cultists
You will encounter Maghda here, as well as a group of Dark Cultists. Maghda will leave the manor and the cultists will attack you from the staircases located on both sides. Killing the cultists will result in ending this quest.


The Imprisoned Angel
This quest starts of course inside the Leoric's Manor. Talk to a Wounded Man found near the door and you'll find out where you'll need to go next.

Enter Halls of Agony Level 1
Open the door mentioned above and activate a new waypoint. Remain inside the manor and use the stairs leading to Halls of Agony Level 1.

Enter Halls of Agony Level 2
Start exploring Halls of Agony Level 1. The hallways here are reasonably wide. You'll be fighting with the creatures that you already know and with some monsters that you will meet for the first time. Dark Berserkers move fast and they use powerful weapons, however their attacks are slow. You'll also encounter plenty of cultists and Voracious Zombiesin all the areas where there are flames. As mentioned in the objective name, your task is to locate a staircase leading to Halls of Agony Level 2.

Go to the Highlands Passage
Halls of Agony Level 2 is very similar to the previous floor in terms of the structure and monster encounters. Make sure to explore this area thoroughly to locate a new waypoint. Continue exploring the level until you've found an exit leading to the Highlands Passage.

Enter the Cursed Hold
This is a spectacular location. You must follow a narrow path, cross a few bridges and use some stairs to reach the Cursed Hold. Some monsters will of course try and stop you on your way to the hold.
Talk to Queen Asylla
Enter the hold and approach the ghost of Queen Asylla. Talk to her and she'll ask you to release the souls of her servants.

Prisoners' remains free (6)
You will now have to travel through a prison, searching for the remains and for the ghosts of the prisoners standing next to them. Click on each dead body so that the spirit can leave in peace. You must release six souls that way.

The friendly ghosts aren't the only beings you'll encounter in prison, however most of the monsters you'll be fighting shouldn't be considered a major threat. Watch out only for Returned Executioners, because even they're slow their weapons can inflict a lot of damage, and for Tortured Summoners, because they can summon archers.
Kill the Warden
Once you've released all six souls mentioned by Queen Asylla proceed to the central area of the prison and you should encounter a Warden surrounded by Savage Fiends. The Warden is a simple opponent, especially since he doesn't have a lot of life points. You should know that he occasionally casts a spell which prevents your team from moving, however this doesn't mean you can't continue defending yourselves or activate skills. Finally, watch out for the slow projectiles he shoots, but even if you get shot it's not a big deal, because you'll receive minimal damage.

Search for the Chamber of Suffering
Once you've defeated the boss find a passageway leading to Halls of Agony Level 3. You may want to explore a side room before using the passageway, because you'll be rewarded with a retrospection of the execution of Queen Asylla.

The location you've just entered is similar to previous levels. You'll be fighting the same monsters, however you'll be dealing with more of them. Your objective is to find the entrance to a larger chamber where a difficult battle awaits you.

Kill the Butcher
A short cut-scene will involve Maghda again and she will present you with your new opponent, called The Butcher. Notice that the area where the duel takes place isn't too big. There are two healing shrines here and they regenerate quickly so it's possible to interact with them several times during the course of the battle. As for the boss, he has several attacks and skills. If you move away from The Butcher he may throw a hook at you and if he succeeds he will pull you towards him. He also has two chains which can inflict injuries even from a large distance. When you're close to the boss he usually attacks with his hammer and uses a magic puff directed at you. Finally, The Butcher sometimes decides to charge at you and each time you've successfully dodged this move you will have some time to perform several attacks of your own.

The location where the duel takes place is divided into several parts and you'll also have to watch out for the flames. Each time you've found yourself in a burning area you must move away quickly, because you'll be receiving fire damage. Don't forget that you must monitor your life bar and that all the potions you drink take a while before they start healing the main character. As a result it's much better to rely on healing shrines and use potions only if the shrines haven't recharged yet.

Find the Stranger
Proceed north after you've killed The Butcher and you'll find an exit from this location which leads to the Cells of the Condemned. Descend the stairs to continue your journey.

Kill the cultists surrounding the Stranger
It shouldn't take long until you've reached an area where several Dark Cultists are using binding spells to keep the Stranger hostage. Kill them to release your friend.
Talk to the Stranger
Talk to the person you've just rescued and give him back the sword so that he can retrieve his memories. The Stranger will introduce himself as Tyrael and you will end this quest.

Return to New Tristram
Talk to Tyrael again before leaving the Cells of the Condemned. He will cast a town portal spell that will transport you back to the city.

Talk to Tyrael in New Tristam
Follow the angel to New Tristram. Once you're there find Tyrael where Deckard Cain usually stood and to talk to him to learn more about the situation.

Talk to the Caravan Leader
Tyrael will send you to talk to the Caravan Leader and this person can be found on the main square. The leader will ask if you want to travel east . If you'll agree you'll automatically end this quest and leave New Tristram for good. You'll also advance to Act II of the game.

Shadows in the Desert
This act begins in the Hidden Camp. Talk to the blacksmith and to all other interactive characters found in the camp. The first quest can be unlocked by talking to Leah.

Go to the Caldeum Bazaar
There's a road near the blacksmith and you must choose it to reach your destination.
Talk to Asheara
Keep going until you've reached the Caldeum Bazaar. Talk to Asheara found in the first area of the bazaar.

Go through the Sundered Canyon
Before you leave the bazaar you should spend some time to explore this area and to meet the merchants. It's also recommended to visit Searing Sands Inn. Once you're ready to move on with the quest proceed to the passageway marked on your map and start exploring the Sundered Canyon. You will encounter an Enchantress after a while and she'll be more than happy to join you. Follow the designated path together.

Since this is a new act and a new location you shouldn't be surprised when you'll encounter entirely new types of enemies. Sand Wasps can fly and they're extremely fast which makes them harder to kill. Watch out for the projectiles they shoot at you (mini-bees), because you can receive poison damage if you get hit. It's recommended that you don't fight groups of wasps at the same time. Another important enemy are Lacuni Huntresses. They perform surprise attacks by jumping down from higher platforms. They're not dangerous in direct combat, but they like to throw exploding potions at you. You should also watch out for large rocks while going through canyons, because coming in contact with the moving objects may cost you a lot of health.

Kill the ambushing cultists
Continue to follow a narrow path and eventually you'll encounter a blocked passageway. Here's where you'll be surprised by a group of enemies you may already know - by Deranged Cultists and by Accursed Hellions. You shouldn't have any problems winning the battle.

Talk to the Enchantress in the Sundered Canyon
Talk to the Enchantress as soon as the battle has ended. She'll use one of her spells to unlock the passageway, allowing you both to move on.
Kill the Lacuni attacking the Iron Wolves
Keep heading forward until you encounter a group of soldiers being attacked by Lacuni Huntresses and by a Lacuni Warrior. Help the soldiers in defeating enemy units.

Talk to Iron Wolf Jarulf
Once you've won the battle initiate a conversation with the leader of this group -Jarulf Iron Wolf. He will thank you for your help and he'll also tell you what to do next.

Disrupt the Hidden Conclave ritual

Disrupt the Secret Altar ritual
Continue your journey through the Sundered Canyon and you'll soon enter an area called Howling Plateau. Expect to be attacked by new types of monsters here. The Fallen and Fallen Overseers aren't a serious threat. Dune Threshers move under the sand surface and they attack by surprise when they're close to your character. Thankfully they aren't a serious problem, because they die after taking a few hits. The biggest threat is the same as in the canyon - it's posed by Sand Wasps and the poisonous projectiles they can fire at you.

Your objective is to locate entrances to two locations - to a Secret Altar and to a Hidden Conclave. The easiest way to achieve this is by following the signs of the sand and to listen to hints provided by the Enchantress. The first signs can be located on the border between Sundered Canyon and Howling Plateau.

Once you've found the passageway to the Secret Altar enter the basement. You'll notice a group of Deranged Cultists performing a ritual and they man be accompanied by Pain Mongers. Interrupt the ritual by killing all hostile units and expect the cultists to summon at least a few Frenzied Hellions.

Once you've cleared the area around the altar return to the surface and start following the signs on the sand again to reach the Hidden Conclave. This is also a small basement that's occupied by Deranged Cultists. Kill them all.
Go to the Black Canyon Bridge
Return to the surface for the second time and focus your efforts on locating a Black Canyon Bridge. The best way to do that is to choose the road leading from the Sundered Canyon through the entire Howling Plateau.

Talk to the Enchantress
Talk to your companion after finding the bridge. She will remove the illusion from the bridge, allowing you to cross it. She will also ask you if you want her to continue the journey with you instead of your previous companions (Scoundrel or Templar). The decision is entirely up to you, you need to go back to the waypoint in the Hidden Camp if you decide not to use the Enchantress anymore, because that's where two previous companions will be waiting for you. Either way the quest will end.

The Road to Alcarnus
Cross the Black Canyon Bridge
This new quest will begin automatically. Cross the bridge to enter Black Canyon Mines. There's a waypoint in this location. As for the enemies, you'll be dealing mostly with the creatures you already know, like Dune Threshers, Fallen Overseers and Sand Wasps. The only difference is that in most situations there's going to be more of them than before.

Find Khasim Outpost
Your main objective is to find Khasim Outpost and sadly you can't get there simply by using the main path, because it's blocked. Check the surrounding area to locate an entrance to Stinging Winds. This is another large area that's filled by monsters you're already familiar with.

Continue moving forward. Since the new location doesn't have a main path you should consider staying close to the edges of the map. Find a proper passageway to Khasim Outpost and activate a waypoint along the way. Walk past the guards and enter the outpost.

Talk to Lieutenant Vachem
You shouldn't have problems locating Lieutenant Vachem and you must talk to him.

Enter the Command Post
The lieutenant will send you to the Command Post to consult with Captain Davyd and the entrance to the outpost is located next to him. Head down to find out that you've been trapped.

Kill the demons in the Command Post
Open the locked cage

Maghda can be found here and you'll also find out that the defenders of the city were an illusion. Get ready to defend yourself from the Copperfang Lurkers. The monsters will attack as a group and they're the biggest threat, because there's nowhere to hide. Keep running around the entire basement if necessary, decreasing the chances of their attacks. Once all the monsters have been killed open the cages to release the prisoners.

Kill the disguised demons in Khasim Outpost
Go back outside to witness a battle taking place. Help your allies in getting rid of a new group of Copperfang Lurkers.

Talk to Captain Davyd in Khasim Outpost
The last thing you need to do is to talk to Captain Davyd - he can be found in the same place where you've previously met Lieutenant Vachem. The quest will come to an end.

City of Blood
Travel through Khasim Outpost's east gate
This quest begins automatically. Once you've finished your conversation with Captain Davyd follow him to the gate. He will open it for you.

Find Alcarnus
Once you've left the Command Post you'll once again end up in the Stinging Winds. The opponents you'll encounter in the near future are the same ones you've fought before, however you may also be attacked by several cultists. Your objective is to find the passageway to the next location and the easiest way to do that is to follow one of the edges of the map.

Use the passageway mentioned above to begin exploring Road to Alcarnus. This is a small location that contains a waypoint. You may be attacked by a creature called Shatterbone along with some hell beasts along the way. The Shatterbone doesn't have a lot of health points and it's not too fast, however it can deal powerful blows. Kill all the monsters and continue the journey until you've reached your destination - Alcarnus.

Find the Lair of the Witch in Alcarnus
Bonus: Caged Prisoners saved (8)
There are a lot of monsters from hell waiting for you here. You will encounter groups of Corrupt Vessels and they can transform into Tormented Thralls. There's also plenty of Crazed Summoners that specialize in summoning groups of Frenzied Hellions. Don't forget about finding and releasing the prisoners while fighting the monsters to complete the bonus task.

Choose the narrow passageway to travel deeper into the city and be prepared to encounter even more enemy units.

Your current objective is to locate a large entrance to Maghda's hideout.

Kill Maghda
Enter the Lair of the Witch and head forward until you're stopped by Maghda. She is a very challenging opponent. One of her attacks is to send a slow projectile which thankfully can be avoided without any major problems. She also likes to surround herself with a magical barrier and likes to summon small groups of Thralls of Maghda.

Return to the Hidden Camp
Once you've killed Maghda consider using a town portal spell to return to the Hidden Camp and to officially end this quest.

A Royal Audience
Upon your arrival you'll discover that Leah was imprisoned during her journey to Alcarnus. Speak with Tyrael to begin this new mission.
Talk to Asheara at the Gates of Caldeum
Travel to the Caldeum Bazaar where you'll have to talk to Asheara. She can be found in front of the palace and once you're done talking you'll be allowed to continue the quest.

Talk to Asheara to enter the Imperial Palace

Follow Asheara to the Gates of Caldeum. Stop in front of the large gate, initiate a conversation and then enter the Imperial Palace.

Talk to Imperor Hakan II
A short cut-scene will show the meeting with the emperor and you'll also meet with Leah.

Kill the demons in the Imperial Palace
The guards will soon transform into Writhing Deceivers and you've probably met similar creatures before. Thankfully you can count on Leah's assistance during this battle and you'll have a lot of room to maneuver. Don't forget, however, that the monsters are masters of illusion and therefore can approach you without being seen.

Escape the Imperial Palace
Once you've killed all the monsters the south-western gate should open and naturally you must travel there (Leah will join you again). Enter the City of Caldeum and stay on the wide path. You'll be stopped by new groups of Writhing Deceivers, as well as by Scaled Magi (they can cast lightning spells) and by Imperial Guards(they prefer melee combat).

Demon Summoners destroyed (4)
The demons are being called by four Demon Summoners, so while fighting the beasts you must also remember about destroying the summoners sooner later than later, preventing more monsters from showing up.

Follow Leah to the Sewers of Caldeum
Once you've destroyed all Demon Summoners you will be allowed to resume your journey. Keep following Leah until she'll locate an entrance to the sewers. Go there to end this quest.

Unexpected Allies
Find the Wretched Pit
This quest will begin as soon as you've entered the Sewers of Caldeum. You can find a new waypoint here and you'll be dealing with several types of monsters. Sandlings are small and they don't pose a serious threat. Diseased Bodies on the other hand are much more dangerous, because they explode when they die, poisoning the area around them. You can also encounter Bone Warriors and Writhing Deceivers here.

The web of sewer tunnels isn't too vast and your primary objective is to locate a passageway leading to the Wretched Pit.

Kill the snakemen guarding Adria
A short cut-scene will be displayed here and you'll find out that Adria is being interrogated. Defeat several Writhing Deceivers to rescue her.

Talk to Adria in the Wretched Pit
Once you've saved Adria you must also talk to her.

Talk to Adria in the Hidden Camp
The first conversation isn't too long. Return to the Hidden Camp using a town portal spell. Once you're there find Adria and talk to her again to end this quest.

Betrayer of the Horadrim
This quest can be started by initiating a conversation with Leah.
Find the oasis gate in the Flooded Causeway
Leah will send you underground. Start in the Hidden Camp and travel to the Caldeum Bazaar. You should be able to locate a hatch near one of the stands and using it will transport you to the Flooded Causeway. Merchant Karl can be found here, as well as the Emperor Hakan II.
Talk to Emperor Hakan II in the Flooded Causeway
Approach the emperor to have a word with him.

Find Dahlgur Oasis
Emperor Hakan II will open a gate, allowing you to use a new hatch and to travel to the Ruined Cistern.

This location is filled with many types of monsters and some of them are: the Betrayed, Diseased Bodies (don't forget that they explode after death leaving a poisonous cloud), Bone Warriors, Writhing Deceivers and Sandlings. Your primary objective is to locate an exit leading to the Path to the Oasis.

Enter the Forgotten Ruins in Dahlgur Oasis
Start exploring the Path to the Oasis, finding a waypoint along the way and finally reaching the Dahlgur Oasis. This is a very large area and in contains several smaller dungeons. Watch out for exploding flowers, because they will try to poison you if you get too close to them. As for the normal monsters, here's a short list of some of the creatures you may encounter: Dush Dervish (they can slow down the man character), Serpent Magi, Writhing Deceivers (you probably know them well by now), Gore Harriers(they're birds and they attacks with their claws), Fallen Peons, Fallen Masters (they're a stronger version of the Fallen you've met earlier in the game) and Fallen Conjurers (they can resurrect Fallen Peons). The oasis also contains a new waypoint.

Your main objective is to find a portal which will transport you to The Forgotten Ruins.

Find Zoltun Kulle's head
The portal will transport you to an entirely new area and your objective is to find Zoltun Kulle's head. Thankfully this location isn't too big. As soon as you've noticed Guardian Towers start attacking them, because they're responsible for summoning new monsters to the battlefield. Watch out for Spine Hewers, because even though they're slow their weapons can inflict serious injuries. Several types of skeletons can also be encountered in the ruins, including the ones carrying shield. Zoltun Kulle's head is hidden in one of the last areas of the ruins.

Get Zoltun Kulle's Head
Be careful, because as soon as you've taken the head an artifact guardian will suddenly emerge from the ground.

Talk to Adria in the Hidden Camp
Use a Town Portal spell to return to the Hidden Camp where you'll have to talk to Adria. A ghost of Zoltun Kulle will be summoned to this place and the quest will soon end.

Blood and Sand 
The only way to begin this new quest is to talk to Zoltun Kulle's ghost in the Hidden Camp. Leah will be helping you during this mission, however you'll also be carrying Kulle's head with you.

Enter the Ancient Waterway in Dahlgur Oasis
Return to the Dahlgur Oasis and travel close to the edges of the map until you locate a passageway to the next location. Choose a narrow path and follow it until you come across a closed door. Zoltun Kulle will open the door for you.

Western flow control level pulled

Eastern flow control level pulled

Open the entrance to the Waterlogged Passage
Enter the Ancient Waterway. Talk to the Emperor Hakan II and then choose the passageway leading to the Western Channel.

Watch out for Electric Eel's here, because they'll be attacking you in groups. You may also encounter Noxious Guardians, Carrion Bats (they inflict lightning damage), the Accursed (they explode when they die) and more common creatures like skeletons.

As for the location itself, it's a network of corridors. Continue exploring it until you locate a passageway to Western Flow Control Room.

You should find a lever upon entering the new area and you must interact with it, completing one of the objectives. Notice that the game has unlocked a passageway to the Eastern Channel.

Start exploring the sewers again. The opponents here are the same as in the previous channel and once again your objective is to locate an exit. Go to the Eastern Flow Control Room, pull the lever and use a newly unlocked passageway. The game will open an entrance to the Ancient Waterway.

Enter the Waterlogged Passage from the Ancient Waterway
All you have to do is to use the newly opened passageway.

Kill the Betrayed
Enter the Waterlogged Passage. Head forward to encounter a "Talking Barrel" and a group of Betrayed. You must kill them all.

Break the Talking Barrel
Once you've dealt with the monsters destroy the barrel to find out that a man was trapped inside.

Talk to Covetous Shen
Initiate a conversation with the Covetous Shen. He will ask you for help in retrieving an item and he'll also join your team.

Find the Crucible in the Hidden Aqueducts
Continue moving forward until you've reached an exit from this location.

You may begin exploring the Hidden Aqueduct and it shouldn't come a surprise that you'll encounter similar monsters to the ones from the canals.

Kill Gavin the Thief
Continue exploring the aqueduct until you've located the Crucible. This object is being guarded by Gavin the Thief and killing him shouldn't be a problem, because he doesn't have a lot of life points and his attacks aren't that strong.

Pick up the Crucible
Pick up the Crucible after you've dealt with the boss. Covetous Shen wants a word with you and he'll tell you that he is a jeweler and from now he will be offering his services to you close to your personal chest in the Hidden Camp.

Go to the Ancient Path
Resume your journey and keep heading forward until you've located a passageway to the Ancient Path. Leah will leave you here and return to the Hidden Camp.

Get the Blood of Zoltun Kulle from the Cave of the Betrayer

Get the Blood of Zoltun Kulle from the Vault of the Assassin
The Ancient Path is a small location, however you will find a new waypoint here. Locate a passageway to the Desolate Sands. This area on the other hand is much bigger and you'll encounter various monsters here, including Lacuni Slashers, Lacuni Stalkers, Gore Harriers, Vile Swarms, Desert Hornets (they can deploy poisoned projectiles), Rockworms (they like to suddenly emerge from the ground) and plenty of others you're already familiar with.

Your current objective is to explore two areas. Start off by finding an entrance to Cave of the Betrayer Level 1.

You will be fighting monsters that you already know, however some of them may be more powerful and resistant to your attacks. Watch out for spiders and rockworms and focus on locating a passageway to Cave of the Betrayer Level 2.

The second level is a large area and you'll be dealing with the same creatures. Find Zoltun Kulle's blood, pick it up and return to the surface (Desolate Sands).

Another area you must find is the Vault of the Assassin. It doesn't have a typical entrance, because you must interact with a portal. Wait to be transported to a new location.

The vault is huge and it's filled with monsters. Don't forget about destroying Guardian Towers in order to prevent more hostiles from joining the battles. As for the monsters, aside from the skeletons and other common creatures you'll also encounter Blazing Guardians and their specialty is to throw fireballs.
You'll find Zoltun Kulle's blood probably somewhere on the edges of the map. Pick it up and return to the portal to end this quest.

The Black Soulstone
Search for the Archives of Zoltun Kulle in the Desolate Sands
This quest will begin automatically after you've finished the previous one. After you've returned to the Desolate Sands you will have to start searching for a passageway leading to the last portal. It's best to explore the northern part of the location while moving close to the edges of the map.

Zoltun Kulle will activate the last portal and you must use it to travel to the Archives of Zoltun Kulle.

Go to the Terminus
Start running forward and make a stop once you've located a new waypoint. You should also encounter Emperor Hakan II and Leah here. Continue your journey until you've reached the Terminus.

Unknown Depths Shadow Lock opened
Listen to a new conversation and then approach a portal which will transport you to the Unknown Depths. This is the first location where you'll have to use the mage's blood to activate a lock.

You must be very careful, because it's very dangerous here. Watch out mostly for Rock Giants, however you'll also have to acknowledge the presence of the Fallen and their shamans, Guardian Towers and various types of skeletons and spiders. It's also crucial to quickly destroy all Toxic Constructs before they summon too many monsters.
The depths are a large location and your objective is to reach the opposite end of the map where you'll have to open a Shadow Lock. The first part of the main mission is now completed. Find a portal nearby to go back to the Terminus.

Storm Halls Shadow Lock opened
You must now travel to the second portal which will transport you to the Storm Halls. This location is similar to the depths, so it's big and it's populated by large groups of powerful monsters.

Continue exploring the halls until you find the second Shadow Lock. Open it and then use a new portal to go back to the Terminus.

Enter the Realm of Shadow through the Terminus
Proceed to the third portal which will teleport you to the Realm of Shadow.

Find Zoltun Kulle's body
This is a dark location occupied by many tough monsters. Shade Stalkers are little demons and they're hard to track and Sand Behemoths are extremely resistant to attacks. Aside from them you'll also encounter plenty of wraiths, spiders and Guardian Towers. Approach Zoltun Kulle's body with caution, because it will be heavily defended.

Talk to Leah in the Terminus
Once you've collected the body use the portal to return to the Terminus. Talk to Leah here and she'll use her powers to resurrect Zoltun Kulle.

Enter the Soulstone Chamber through the Terminus
Zoltun Kulle will open a portal to the Soulstone Chamber and you must follow him there.
Talk to Zoltun Kulle
Head forward and get ready for an unpleasant surprise - a new battle.

Kill Zoltun Kulle
The best way to begin this battle is to eliminate the Eternal Guardians. They are quite tough, however they're also very slow. Try to avoid Zoltun's attacks in the meantime, because he won't wait until you focus on him.

Zoltun Kulle himself has an ENORMOUS life bar. He likes to cast a spell which slows down your team, assuming of course you will find yourself within the radius of the spell. Other Kulle's attacks are a whirlwind which inflicts major injuries and fireballs which explode after coming in contact with a target. Kulle can teleport himself across the battlefield which makes killing him even harder. Expect this duel to take a large amount of time and wisely use your health potions and skills.

Get the Black Soulstone
Once you've eliminated Kulle and his servants you will be allowed to collect the Black Soulstone which is in the middle of the chamber. You must now take part in new conversations with Leah and Tyrael. As for the soulstone, Adria will take it.

Talk to Adria in the Hidden Camp
Use a portal to travel back to the Terminus, because you can't use the town portal spell within the Soulstone Chamber. Return to the Hidden Camp and talk to Adria again to end the quest.

The Scouring of Caldeum
Talk to Leah to begin this new mission. It's also worth mentioning that three merchants from the Caldeum Bazaar have moved to the Hidden Camp in the meantime and they'll remain here for the rest of the act.
Find Asheara in the Caldeum Bazaar
Go to the Caldeum Bazaar and notice that Belial has already begun the attack on the city. Run towards Asheara - she should be standing close to the entrance to the Flooded Causeway.

Lead Caldeum refugees to the Flooded Causeway
Bonus: Caldeum refugees saved
Your job is to evacuate people from the city to the canals. Make sure to use your map, because it'll show where you'll find the refugees that need to be saved. You must approach each civilian for that person to start following you and then escort the refugee to the Flooded Causeway, eliminating monsters encountered along the way. Some of the refugees may be hiding under wagons and in this case you must click on them to force them to come out of hiding. Remember to hurry, because you only have a limited time to save the innocent people. I suggest that you start with the refugees located to your right.

Once you've rescued the first group of refugees go to your left and choose a previously unaccessible passageway. Remember that you shouldn't travel to the sewers too often. It's best to add at least several refugees to the group before returning with them. Try to save as many people as possible.

Enter the City of Caldeum with Leah and Adria
You should still be in the Caldeum Bazaar and you must run towards the palace. Leah will destroy the door, allowing you to head inside.

Go to the Imperial Palace
You've ended up in the City of Caldeum. You know this location quite well, because you've already explored it by travelling in an opposite direction with the emperor. Keep moving towards the Imperial Palace. Well-known monsters are waiting for you here, however you will also have to kill a powerful mage named Kamyr along the way (his spells are blocking the passageway).

Watch out for small rifts, because toxic fumes will be coming out of them. Time your moves so you won't lose health in these places. Expect more enemies to stand in your way. Wait until Leah has destroyed a new door and enter the Imperial Palace.

Kill Belial
Watch a short cut-scene which will inform you that Emperor Hakan II is in fact Belial. Once the battle has started he will be standing in the exact same spot where you've met him as the emperor for the first time. Start attacking the Veiled Sentinels.

Belial will soon use the stairs and join the battle, however this is only a taste of the things to come. The boss has a lot of health points, he's extremely fast, he can send out poisonous projectiles and he occasionally summons more Veiled Sentinels to aid him. Continue attacking Belial until he's lost enough health points and that's when the main part of the battle will begin.

In this new stage of the battle Belial is even more powerful. He's got a very long health bar, so expect the duel to last at least a few minutes. The boss will use his large limbs to attack areas marked with green circles and that information should help you in avoiding massive injuries.

Belial often turns on his rage mode and this is when he slams his hands into the ground you're standing on and causes explosions inside all of the green circles. This is his most powerful attack which deals incredible amounts of damage, so make sure to act quickly and to position yourself far away from the green circles. Aside from the attack described above Belial also likes to rely on a poisonous breath which covers the entire battlefield, but it's not that deadly. Try regenerating mostly thanks to health spheres and use the potions only if you don't have any other choice.

Obtain the Soul of Belial in the Imperial Palace
As soon as you've defeated the boss you will return to the palace. Among the items left here there's a very important one - Soul of Belial. Take the soul, causing additional characters to appear in the area. Leah will use the recently obtained Black Soulstone to imprison the soul.

Talk to Tyrael at the Hidden Camp
Use a town portal spell to return to the Hidden Camp where you must speak with Tyrael.

Talk to the Caracan Leader to leave Caldeum
It's time to move on and the procedure is the same as in the first act. Talk to the Caravan Leader and confirm that you want to leave this place.

The Siege of Bastion's Keep
You begin in the Bastion's Keep Watchtower. Speak with Tyrael who should be standing next to you to get your first assignment. Descend the stairs afterwards and enter the Armory.
Signal beacons in the Skycrown Battlement's lit (5)
You'll meet Leah and Adria here and you should also notice the Black Soulstone. Proceed to the next door.

Enter the Bastion's Keep Stronghold. This location is the central part of the city and this means you'll find merchants here, as well as a blacksmith, a jeweler and companions for hire. Proceed to the gate located next to the blacksmith.
Be careful, because you're going to be attacked by Demon Troopers here. They're big, however they're not a serious threat, mostly because they don't have a lot of health points. Witness the vision of Azmodan which will be a taste of things to come.

Once you're ready proceed to the door leading to the Skycrown Battlements.

Begin exploring the Skycrown Battlements. This is a large location that forces you to travel through the stronghold's defense walls. Your primary objective at the moment is to light five signal beacons. Naturally you will be constantly interrupted by monsters and most of them will be more dangerous than the creatures encountered in the previous acts.
You've already fought with the Demon Troopers in the previous location. Aside from them you'll also be dealing with Fallen Hellhounds (they don't die as quickly as they should and they usually appear in groups), Fallen Grunts (they're not a serious threat), Fallen Prophets (they can resurrect Fallen Soldiers), Fallen Mongrels (they have a lot of health points), Fallen Overlords (they're also hard to kill and they have a powerful bashing attack) and Demonic Hellflyers(not only they can fly, but they also spit fireballs). I recommend that you always focus on the creatures with the abilities of resurrecting their kind.

Watch out for enormous Demonic Hellbearers. They are clinging to the stronghold's walls and spit new monsters from their mouths, usually new Demon Troopers. It's not easy to kill a hellbearer, because you'll have to deal with all the monsters it spat out first.

Another danger you must be aware of are huge objects landing on the stronghold's walls. Red circles marks areas where they will land, however you can't anticipate where smaller projectiles will hit the ground.

Follow the only route through the stronghold's walls, locating and activating signal beacons along the way. Each beacon will be defended by a single Demonic Hellbearer. Continue your journey until you've lit all five beacons. It's worth adding that you may also encounter Colossal Golgors while trying to complete this objective. They're slow, however they have a lot of life points and their attacks are very strong.
Find Sergeant Dalen in the Skycrown Battlements

Keep exploring this location even after you've lit all five beacons and you will soon encounter Sergeant Dalen. Watch another vision of Azmodan which will end this quest.

Turning the Tide
Speak with Sergeant Dalen to begin this quest. He will open a door leading to the next location of the stronghold.
Catapults raised in Stonefort (3)
Start exploring the Stonefort. This is another large location which features exploration of the stronghold's defense walls.

You'll be encountering mostly the same monsters as in previous quest. Follow the path until you locate the first catapult. It's worth knowing that in order to continue this quest you may be required to complete an event called Waiting for Reinforcements (it's described in the chapter about events of Act 3).

Talk to the soldier standing close to the first catapult and you'll find out that you must protect the recruits while they set it up. This is a part of another side event, called Raising Recruits. Wait until the catapult is ready before moving on.

Continue moving forward until you've reached the second catapult. Once again, you will have to protect your allies. This is achieved as a part of an event called Protect and Serve and it's going to be much harder this time to win.

Once again you must resume exploring the stronghold's walls. Locate the final third catapult. In this case you'll have to ready the catapult by working in co-operation with a lieutenant. It's achieved by interacting with a winch and fending off monsters at the same time and it's a part of an event called Manual Override.

Return to the Bastion's Keep Stronghold
Use a town portal spell to return to the Bastion's Keep Stronghold and to finish this quest.
The Breached Keep
Locate Tyrael in the Bastion's Keep Stronghold and talk to him to start a new mission.
Find the Keep Depths Level 2
Find the jeweler and approach a passageway located next to him which leads to Keep Depths Level 1. Deal with a small group of Demon Troopers and then use this passageway.

Start exploring the Keep Depths Level 1. This is an enormous location and you must be extremely careful, because large groups of monsters may occupy even smaller rooms of the depths. As for the details on the monsters, you may encounter Soul Rippers (they use their very long tongues and they can jump once they grab you), Icy Quillbacks (they shoot spikes), plenty of skeletons (including the ones with shields and bows) and the creatures from the previous quests.

Your main objective is to locate a passageway Keep Depths Level 2, however before you use it make sure to locate and activate a waypoint on level 1.

Find the Breach in the Keep Depths
This is another large location and it's occupied by several new types of monsters, including Demonic Tremors (they can shield themselves to prevent you from injuring them), Swift Skull Cleavers(they're not only fast, but they also have a lot of health points and their large swords inflict major injuries), Demon Raiders and Fallen Maniacs (they may explode if they manage to get closer to you).

Continue exploring the second level until you've found the Breach. Witness another vision of Azmodan to find out that you've arrived too late.

Find the Bastion's Keep Larder
Continue moving forward. There's an entrance to Keep Depths Level 3 near the Breach and you must use it.

The third level isn't as big as the previous ones, however it contains a waypoint. Keep exploring the level until you've located an entrance to the Larder.

Kill Ghom in the Larder
Head forward after entering the Larder and it shouldn't take long for you to find a chamber occupied by Ghom. His primary attack is to create a poisonous cloud and you should stay away from it if you can. The boss can also spit Gluttons and it's best to avoid them or to kill them as soon as possible. Also, it's important to know that Ghom isn't as slow as it might seem and that he has a lot of health points.

Return to the Bastion's Keep Stronghold
Cast a town portal spell to return to the Bastion's Keep Stronghold. Doing this will end the quest, however you will also be presented with another vision of Azmodan.

The Breached Keep
Locate Tyrael in the Bastion's Keep Stronghold and talk to him to start a new mission.
Find the Keep Depths Level 2
Find the jeweler and approach a passageway located next to him which leads to Keep Depths Level 1. Deal with a small group of Demon Troopers and then use this passageway.

Start exploring the Keep Depths Level 1. This is an enormous location and you must be extremely careful, because large groups of monsters may occupy even smaller rooms of the depths. As for the details on the monsters, you may encounter Soul Rippers (they use their very long tongues and they can jump once they grab you), Icy Quillbacks (they shoot spikes), plenty of skeletons (including the ones with shields and bows) and the creatures from the previous quests.

Your main objective is to locate a passageway Keep Depths Level 2, however before you use it make sure to locate and activate a waypoint on level 1.

Find the Breach in the Keep Depths
This is another large location and it's occupied by several new types of monsters, including Demonic Tremors (they can shield themselves to prevent you from injuring them), Swift Skull Cleavers(they're not only fast, but they also have a lot of health points and their large swords inflict major injuries), Demon Raiders and Fallen Maniacs (they may explode if they manage to get closer to you).

Continue exploring the second level until you've found the Breach. Witness another vision of Azmodan to find out that you've arrived too late.

Find the Bastion's Keep Larder
Continue moving forward. There's an entrance to Keep Depths Level 3 near the Breach and you must use it.

The third level isn't as big as the previous ones, however it contains a waypoint. Keep exploring the level until you've located an entrance to the Larder.

Kill Ghom in the Larder
Head forward after entering the Larder and it shouldn't take long for you to find a chamber occupied by Ghom. His primary attack is to create a poisonous cloud and you should stay away from it if you can. The boss can also spit Gluttons and it's best to avoid them or to kill them as soon as possible. Also, it's important to know that Ghom isn't as slow as it might seem and that he has a lot of health points.

Return to the Bastion's Keep Stronghold
Cast a town portal spell to return to the Bastion's Keep Stronghold. Doing this will end the quest, however you will also be presented with another vision of Azmodan.

Machines of War
Go through the Arreat Gate
This quest will begin automatically after completing the previous one. You start in the Armory and the first thing you need to do is to return to the Bastion's Keep Stronghold. Once you're there locate a large passageway leading to the Arreat Gate.

Talk to Sergeant Pale outside the Arreat Gate
Descend the stairs. You don't have to remain cautious here, because you won't encounter any demons. Approach the catapults, locate Sergeant Pale and talk to him.

Cross the Bridge of Korsikk
You may proceed forward. Soon after you've walked through a gate you will enter a new area called The Battlefields and you must be ready to engage new monsters in combat. Blood Clan Warriorsalways act as a group and some of their attacks have a bashing effect. Heralds of Pestilencelike to put one hand in the ground, allowing themselves to poison you even from a large distance. Winged Moloks are a stronger version of flying creatures you've already encountered on the stronghold's walls. They usually attack in groups and they like to spit fireballs. Reviled aren't a threat. Hell Bringers on the other hand are a serious problem. You should know that they like to surround themselves with traps and they activate them when you move closer. Aside from the creatures described above you should also expect to meet some of the monsters you've already fought with in this act.

The fields definitely aren't one of the larger locations of this act. Continue exploring them until you've located the Bridge of Korsikk.

Enter the bridge and head forward. The bridge is heavily damaged in order to get to the other side you'll be forced to use stairs and destroy various barricades. You'll also encounter monsters (all of them are already familiar to you) and find a new waypoint.
Demonic Ballistae destroyed (3)
Trebuchet destroyed (1)
After you've crossed the Bridge of Korsikk you'll enter a new location named Fields of Slaughter. This is a large area that's heavily occupied by various types of demons. Your objective is to destroy three ballistae and one trebuchet. The ballistae are marked on your map and they're very distinctive, so you shouldn't have problems locating them. They're also poorly built so a few hits should be enough to destroy each one of them.

Don't forget to monitor your surroundings while searching for the war machines, because this entire location is swarming with demons. It's best to move slow in order to remain safe.

The trebuchet is an enormous structure and in order to destroy it you must go to the middle of it and start attacking its weak point. Once you've successfully destroyed all war machines you're going to be rewarded with a new vision of Azmodan.
Find Rakkis Crossing
Continue exploring the Fields of Slaughter to locate a large passageway leading to the next location.
Talk to Tyrael
Tyrael should be waiting for you here. Talk to him in order for him to join you. This quest will soon end and you'll witness yet another vision of Azmodan.

Siegebreaker
Find the Demon Gate at the Edge of the Abyss
Head deeper into the Rakkis Crossing. This location is very similar in terms of its structure to the Bridge of Korsikk from the previous quest, however you'll be dealing with more demons than before.

At the end of the Rakkis Crossing you should be able to locate a passageway to the Edge of the Abyss.

Kill the Siegebreaker Assault Beast
The only way to move on is to defeat Kartan and you should know that this demon has a very extensive life bar. Fighting this monster in close combat may be very dangerous, because the boss can grab you with its huge claws and can then throw you, dealing severe damage. If you decide to attack it from a distance you also won't be completely safe, because the demon can charge at you. Thankfully the arena where you're fighting is large, so you'll always have a place where you can run away to.

Talk to Adria near the Demon Gate
As soon as you've eliminated Kartan you should notice that Adria has arrived here using a town portal spell. Talk to her to end this quest and to learn that Tyrael won't be a part of your team anymore.

Heart of Sin
Go through Arreat Crater and find the Tower of the Damned
This new quest will begin automatically after ending the conversation with Adrii in the Edge of the Abyss. Step through the gate to find yourself in Arreat Crater Level 1. A waypoint should be located somewhere nearby.

Get ready for a long journey filled with a lot of battles. Some of the monsters that will try to take your life will be: Fallen Soldiers, Fallen Fire mages, Demonic Serpents (they like to suddenly emerge from the ground), Stygian Crawlers (they're small spiders), Heralds of Pestilence (you've fought them before) and Colossal Golgors (you should already know them as well).

Keep pushing until you've encountered a group of Demonic Summoners. It's crucial that you eliminate them as soon as possible, because otherwise they'll summon more demons to the battlefield.

Your current objective is to locate a passageway leading to the Tower of the Damned Level 1. The journey will be interrupted by a new vision of Azmodan.

Once you've started exploring the Tower of the Damned Level 1 you'll have to be ready to engage new types of monsters aside from the ones you already know. Hulking Phasebeast seem to pose the biggest threat. You should also be on a lookout for a new waypoint.

The location you're currently exploring has an oval shape and you will be constantly moving down. The passageway to the next area can be found at the bottom of the staircase, however before you get there you'll take part in a lot of fights, including the ones with Succubuses which can burden your team with curses.
You'll soon reach Tower of the Damned Level 2. Cydaea will start talking to you here and she'll be your next main opponent. Continue using the stairs, killing Hulking Phasebeast and other demons along the way. Eventually you'll get to a new passageway.

Once you've reached the bottom of the Tower of the Damned you'll enter a location named Heart of the Damned. Continue moving downwards. Cydaea will appear near the Sin Heart. She can effectively slow you down and spit poisonous projectiles which give birth to smaller spiders. Don't count on ending this battle quickly, because Cydaea will soon flee.

Kill the Daughters of Pain
As I've mentioned, Cydaea will flee and she'll leave you to "play" with her daughters - a group of Succubuses. Once these monsters are dead there will be nothing else stopping you from destroying the first heart.

Destroy the Sin Heart
Destroy the first heart. It doesn't pose any threat and it has a small energy bar.

Find the Tower of the Cursed
Destroying the first heart will open a new passageway. Head forward and continue moving until you've located a passageway leading to Arreat Crater Level 2.

Search the area to locate a waypoint. Reaching the second heart will be similar to finding the one which you've already destroyed. Arreat Crater Level 2 has an almost identical structure to Arreat Crater Level 1 and it's occupied by well-known monster types. You'll have a chance to watch a new vision of Azmodan along the way and eventually you'll get to the Tower of the Cursed Level 1. There's another waypoint in this location. Start using the stairs again, heading downwards. Your final objective is the Tower of the Cursed Level 2.

Once you've reached the bottom of the tower you'll have to defeat new demons and locate a passageway to the Heart of the Cursed. Notice that you aren't allowed to use a town portal spell here, so make sure to take the trip to the city before entering this area. Continue your march until you've located the heart and Cydaea.

Kill Cydaea
You already know what Cydaea is capable of, but here's a quick reminder: she can deploy a web which slows you down and she can spit poisonous projectiles. You also have to acknowledge the presence of smaller spiders that will be helping her.

Destroy the Sin Heart
Once you've killed Cydaea you'll be allowed to focus on destroying the second heart. Doing this will unlock the passageway to the next location. Head down and locate an entrance to The Core of Arreat.

Kill Azmodan in the Heart of Sin
There's a new waypoint in The Core of Arreat and you should also know that this is the last area you'll explore before taking part in the final battle of Act 3. Eliminate new demons, moving towards a passageway leading to the Heart of Sin. Proceed forward here and you'll soon enter a much larger room where Azmodan will already be waiting for you.

Azmodan has several types of attacks. The most common attack is about casting huge fireball at your team. The fireballs move rather slowly, however they won't be flying in a straight line. Instead they'll be homing in on your position and only if you continue to successfully evade them for more than a few seconds they'll explode. If you fail and get in contact with them you'll receive severe fire damage.

The boss also likes to "bombard" the area with dead bodies and you can receive damage if you get hit by one of them. The best way to avoid injuries here is to observe what's happening on the map, because a circle will appear on it soon before an area of the battlefield will be bombarded, giving you time to move away.
Another one of Azmodan's attacks is about creating black circles that are filled with the power of hell and expand over time. Make sure to stay away from them, because otherwise you'll receive massive injuries. The best tactic here is to start running towards the opposite edge of the battlefield, hoping that the black circle won't catch you.

Demon Gates may appear on the battlefield during the battle and Azmodan's Servants will be able to use them to join the fight. It's not a big threat, however you should be destroying the gates each time you notice them. The last one of Azmodan's attacks is a ray of fire and the boss can use it to inflict damage from a larger distance.

Killing Azmodan requires some time. Be patient, avoid his attacks as much as you can and look for opportunities to perform your attacks. Defeating this boss is rewarded with tons of treasures.

Get the Soul of Azmodan
The deal is the same as with the battle with Beliala from the previous parts of the game, because you'll be forced to get Azmodan's soul. As soon as you've clicked on the soul Adria, Tyrael and Leah will show up here. Leah will perform the ritual to imprison the soul within a Black Soulstone.

Return to the Bastion's Keep Stronghold
Use a town portal spell to return to the Bastion's Keep Stronghold.

Talk to Lieutenant Lavail
Lieutenant Lavail should be standing next to the town portal you've created. Talk to him and he'll give you new orders.

Enter the Armory
Proceed to the Armory.
Go to the Keep Tower
You won't encounter anyone here when you'll enter the Armory. Follow the blood trails to the Bastion's Keep Watchtower. You'll soon learn all the truth about Adria's betrayal and about Leah being used by Diablo.

Enter the Portal to Heaven
Make sure that you've completed all events, as well as visited the merchants and the blacksmith. Step through the portal to end this act and to advance to the last one.

Fall of the High Heavens
Talk to Tyrael at the Diamond Gates
This act begins at the Diamond Gates and you'll be exploring High Heavens from now on. You won't find any cities here, however town portal spells and waypoints can transport you back to the Bastion's Keep Stronghold, allowing you to meet with merchants, blacksmiths, jewelers and followers. Head forward to find a new waypoint. Listen to a conversation between Tyrael and Imperius and then speak with Tyrael.

Enter the Vestibule of Light
Notice that there's a portal here which can transport you to the Vestibule of Light. Use it.

Kill Iskatu and his minions
You'll soon have to have to defeat the first demon Diablo sent after you. Start off by attacking Iskatu's minions - Shadow Vermin. To be honest they're the biggest problem during this battle.

Iskatu doesn't have a lot of health points and his attack don't inflict a lot of damage, so the only problem is to make your way to the boss by eliminating all the Shadow Vermin standing in your way. Once you've defeated Iskatu you'll end the first quest of this act.

The Light of Hope
Find Itherael
This new mission will begin automatically after ending the previous one. Head forward and you'll encounter Itherael near a new waypoint.

Talk to Itherael
Talk to the archangel to find out about the next step of your journey.

Find the Library of Fate in the Gardens of Hope
A passageway can be found behind the archangel and you must use it to travel to Gardens of Hope 1st Tier. Expect to encounter hordes of demons along the way, however you can count on the help of angels present in the area. Watch out for Armored Destroyed, because they drop from the skies like projectiles. Bile Crawlers are fast, but they're not dangerous and they can attack only in close combat. Oppressor use not only their swords, but they also like to shout and perform chargers. Subjugators tend to throw exploding objects at you. Vile Temptresses are a stronger versions of Succubuses encountered in the previous acts. As for the gardens, you will probably find corrupt growths blocking your way and you'll be allowed to destroy it later in the game.

Enter the Library of Fate
The gardens also contain a new waypoint and obviously you must activate it. Continue exploring the area until you've found an entrance to the Library of Fate. Head inside.

Kill Rakanoth
Another one of Diablo's servants will be waiting for you here. Rakanoth has a lot of life points, however the arena where you're fighting is large, so you'll have plenty of space to move around. Watch out for the boss though, because he can move very fast and therefore can immediately approach you to perform an attack. Rakanoth uses swords in melee combat and if you move away he fires projectiles at you which are easy to avoid. He also likes to summon Soul Devourers for help.

Destroy Auriel's prison in the Library of Fate
Once you've dealt with Rakanoth free Auriel from the prison by destroying it. Itherael should appear here.

Talk to Auriel in the Library of Fate
Talk to Auriel to find out about your next objective.

Return to Gardens of Hope 1st Tier
The archangel's will open a portal, allowing you to return to the Gardens of Hope 1st Tier.

Find and destroy the Corrupt Growths to reveal the hidden Hell Rift portal in the Gardens of Hope 1st Tier
You may begin destroying the Corrupt Growths. Each growth has a small number of energy points, however once it's destroyed you'll have to defeat a small group of Bile Crawlers.

Explore the entire first gear, destroying all Corrupt Growths you encounter. Expect more demons to try and interrupt that process.

Destroying one of the Corrupt Growths will result in a portal appearing instead of it. Use it to travel to the Hell Rift.

Destroy the Rift Occulus in the Hell Rift
We're back in hell again. This isn't a large location, however it's heavily occupied by various types of demons. Warping Horrors are a stronger versions of demons you've encountered during your previous trip to hell. Mounted Armaddons have a lot of life points and they can turn into Subjugators. Occulus will be waiting for you at the end of this location and expect that the boss will be heavily defended.

Once you've defeated all the monsters destroy a Rift Occulus. Auriel will arrive here to give you the details of your next assignment.

Use Auriel's portal to leave the Hell Rift
Notice that Auriel has opened a portal for you. Step through the portal to return to Gardens of Hope 1st Tier.

Enter the Gardens of Hope 2nd Tier
Use your personal map to find a rather distinctive area with yet another portal. Use this portal to be transported to Gardens of Hope 2nd Tier.

Find and destroy the Corrupt Growths to reveal the hidden Hell Rift portal in the Gardens of Hope 2nd Tier
There are several new Corrupt Growths here for you to destroy, however you'll also be dealing with lots of demons on this tier. Some of them are: Oppressors, Corrupted Angels (they like to charge at the main character), Spine Lashers, Darksky Fire Demons and Morlu Invaders. Just as before, you can count on the angels to assist you in some of the battles. You should also be on a look out for a new waypoint.
Start destroying the Corrupt Growths and continue this process until one of the growths reveals a portal leading to the Hell Rift.

Destroy the Rift Occulus in the Hell Rift
Start exploring the hell again. This visit is similar to the previous one, so you'll be exploring a rather small location and you'll be fighting with the creatures you already know.

Keep pushing forward until you've located a boss of this location. Kill the creature and then destroy the second Rift Occulus.

Use Auriel's portal to leave the Hell Rift
Just as before, Auriel will arrive here as soon as you've destroyed the Rift Occulus. She'll tell you what to do next and she'll also open a portal which you must use.

Find the portal to the Crystal Colonnade
Notice that you've returned to the Gardens of Hope 2nd Tier and your main objective is to locate another portal.

Talk to Tyrael
Once you've located the portal mentioned in this quest objective you should encounter Tyrael. Talk to him and notice that he's joined your team.

Enter the Crystal Colonnade
Use the portal which will open next to Tyrael. Doing that will allow you to end this quest.


Beneath the Spire
Find Imperius at the Crystal Colonnade
This quest begins automatically after entering the Crystal Colonnade. Head forward and you'll be rewarded with a cut-scene showing Imperius's warning. Auriel and Itherael will soon show up.

Enter the Gateway to the Silver Spire
Choose a passageway located at the end of this location. Diablo will leave a surprise for you here, but you're not in any danger. Choose the Gateway to the Silver Spire to officially end this third quest.

Prime Evil
Cross the Great Span of the Silver Spire
This final quest of the game will begin as soon as you've entered the Gateway to the Silver Spire. Head forward to meet an illusion of one of the characters that died during your journey. Talk to that person. The conversation will soon be interrupted, because the illusion will transform into one of Diablo's servants.

Once you've defeated the monster head forward. The location you're exploring isn't that being and at the end of the bridge you'll locate a portal which will transport you to The Silver Spire Level 1.

As soon as you've used the portal you'll come across another illusion of a dead character. Initiate a conversation and be ready to defeat a demon that is one of Diablo's servants.

This location is much bigger than the one you've explored at the beginning of the quest. Watch out for rifts, because flames will be coming out of them and you may receive fire damage. As for the monsters, you'll be dealing with the demons you're already familiar with, but also with several new types of creatures. Terror Demons inflict serious damage and they have a lot of health points. Morlu Incinerators can create circles of fire on the ground that deal serious damage and they can also move fast. Shade Stalkers will be frequent targets of your attacks, as well as Hell Witches and Gloom Wraiths.

Continue exploring The Silver Spire Level 1 until you locate a portal that can transport you to The Great Span.

Kill Izual
Cross the bridge and get ready for another one of Diablo's surprises. This time you'll be forced to fight a fallen angel named Izual (you've already met him in Diablo II). The boss doesn't have a lot of health points, however he's surrounded by smaller demons. The biggest threat is his freeze attack that can immobilize you completely even for a few seconds. Watch out for white crystals seen in the air, because they explode after a while and they can also freeze you if you were inside the radius of the blast. Another one of Izual's attacks is to fire ice projectiles in all directions. They won't stop you, but they can slow you down. The fallen angel is very fast and you should know that the arena where you're fighting doesn't give a lot of places where you can escape.

Climb to the Pinnacle of Heaven in the Silver Spire
Once you've defeated Izual use the second part of the bridge, eliminating smaller demons along the way. Locate a new waypoint and then approach a portal which will transport you to The Silver Spire Level 2.

Get ready to encounter one more illusion after exiting the portal. The deal here is similar to previous encounters so expect to be attacked by a servant of Diablo.
Once you've defeated the demon start exploring this large location. You'll be encountering the monsters you already know. Don't forget to kill Morlu Incinerators as soon as you can, because they can summon more creatures.

Your current objective is to find the last portal which can transport you to the Pinnacle of Heaven. You'll soon start the final battle, so wait for your skills to recharge and resupply before using the portal.

Talk to Tyrael
Enter the Pinnacle of Heaven. Imperius will try to interrupt in your journey, but because of Diablo him and all other angels will lose their powers. Talk to Tyrael who should be standing next to you.

Go to the Crystal Arch
Head forward and use the portal located at the end of the corridor.

Find Diablo
Begin exploring the Crystal Arch. Diablo will soon imprison your companion and it means that you'll have to take part in the final battle alone. Head forward and use the stairs to reach the arena.

Kill Diablo
The first phase of the final battle will take place in the Crystal Arch. This is a large location and therefore you'll have plenty of room to move around. Notice two healing shrines and remember to use them wisely. The most important thing about this battle is that you should keep moving. Diablo will be deploying traps similar to the one that has stopped your ally. You can't destroy them and if you get caught Diablo will grab you and will heavily injure you by throwing you to the ground. Thankfully you can find out where the next trap will be deployed, because the ground will become darker in that place. This should give you enough time to move away.
Diablo can teleport himself across the battlefield, so don't be surprised if he suddenly appears next to your character. The boss uses his claws in melee combat and he also likes to throw fireballs in all directions (you should know this attack from Diablo II).

Diablo can also cast a single fireball and that fireball creates a fire circle on the ground after the explosion. Stay away from the circle, because otherwise you'll catch on fire and most likely lose a lot of health points. Thankfully the fire circles don't work as traps, so you can escape without problems. Diablo's last attack is to burden you with a destruction curse and it inflict additional damage for a few seconds.

Kill the Shadow of Diablo
Once you've sufficiently injured Diablo (he should have a little more than half of his life bar left) you'll advance to phase two of the battle. This phase takes place in the Realm or Terror and your job is to kill the Shadow of Diablo. The shadow uses the same tricks as the main boss from phase one.

The Shadow of Diablo shouldn't be your only concern, because once in a while you may also be forced to with a Terror Phantasm. The location where you're fighting may also cause problems, because you'll be dealing with low visibility. Be prepared to repel any kinds of attacks and continue fighting until you've killed the Shadow of Diablo.

Kill Diablo
Once you've killed the Shadow of Diablo you'll return to the Crystal Arch and the last third phase of the battle will begin. Diablo will have the same health bar as he did at the end of phase one. He'll also be using the same tricks - traps, circles of fire, curses, shooting fireballs in all directions etc. There's only one new attack he'll start using and you probably remember it from Diablo II, because it's about sending a powerful ray. If you get caught by the ray you'll receive an enormous damage and therefore you can die really quick.

It's not unusual that this final battle will be long and will require you to stay focused, but thanks to that killing Diablo should provide some satisfaction.

Talk to Auriel and bring your quest to an end
After you've killed Diablo in the Crystal Arch a lot of characters will appear here - Auriel, Itherael, Tyrael and your three companions. Talk to Auriel and watch the epilogue. Congratulations on ending the game and don't forget to repeat the campaign on higher difficulty levels.

