Part 1: The 1st Floor
As soon as the game starts head on over to the left side and open the cabinet. Grab the Christmas duck and you'll find the main door key underneath it. 

Take the key and go back to the main door. There's a note posted on the right door. Read it, then proceed to unlock the door and enter the house. 

Inside the house turn left and you'll see some boxes. Get closer and examine the folder that's sitting on top of it and you'll receive a journal entry from Sam. 

Now head over to the right side of the stairs, turn on the light and open the drawer on the cabinet. You'll find a letter inside that's addressed to your mother. 

After reading the letter head over to the left side of the stairs and start switching on the lights on the drawers. 

You'll find an answering machine on top of one of the drawers. Start playing the messages and listen to them before proceeding to enter the door on the left side. 

After entering the door, use the light switch that's on the right side wall to switch on the lights. Then turn left and open the closet door. 

Inside the closet you'll find a school bag with a piece of paper sticking out of it. Examine the paper and you'll receive another journal entry. 

After receiving the journal entry leave the closet and open the drawer that's near the closet door. You'll find an obituary of the former owner of the house. 

Now proceed further down the hall and into the last room on the right wall just before the corner. Turn on the light switch inside that's on the right side of the door. 

To the right side of the room you'll see a filing cabinet. You'll need a combination to open the first one so go inside the room that's on the left side from this cabinet. 

Inside the room switch on the lights. The light switch is on the left side of the door. Once you've switched on the lights go around the bookshelves on to the other side. 

On the far right side of the bookshelf you'll find a folder sitting on one of the layers. Open the folder and you'll find the cabinet combination as well as a letter. Read the letter and use the code to open the filling cabinet. 

Leave the room and go inside the T.V. room that's on the far left corner of the corridor. 

Switch on the lights and go over to the bookshelves. There's a box on the lowest layer of the last bookshelf. Examine it, then head over to the door on the opposite side. 

Turn on the light and read the story. Close the closet behind you and turn towards the T.V. cabinet. 

On top of the T.V. cabinet you'll find a pink book with a note on it. Examine the book and put it back down to receive another journal entry. Now leave the T.V. room there's nothing more to see here. 

After leaving the room, look to your right and you'll see a small crumpled paper near the trash bin. Examine it and you'll have a better idea of what your sister's going through. 

Head inside the first door on the left side of the corridor after you finish reading the paper. Go behind the bar table and examin the piece of paper inside the box. Then go to the sofa and open the folder to read the assignment. Now head over to the door beside the bar. 

Inside the cabinet you'll find a piece of paper that's attached to one of the clothes that are hanged there. Read it and you'll receive another journal entry afterwards. 

Leave the room and proceed further down the corridor. You'll see another drawer cabinet. Open the bottom layer and you'll find a note inside. You'll receive another journal entry after that. 

Now head back into the foyer and climb up the second floor. 

Part 2: The Second Floor



As soon as you enter the second floor turn right and flip the light switches. 

Look to the left side and you'll see a bookshelf. Open the lower cabinet and examine the cassette tape, then drop it and you'll receive another journal entry. 

Keep walking towards the end of the hallway and examine the letter posted on the board. Then enter the room on the right side of it. 

As you enter the room you'll notice a locker near the bed. Leave it for now but remember this place. Now exit through the other door inside the room and look to the right. There's a backpack there with a note underneath. 

Now go to the door at the end of the corridor near the window. Turn on the lights and approach the tub. You'll find some red liquid. Look at the left side of the tub and you'll find a red bottle. Examine it and you'll receive another journal entry. 

Now leave the toilet and go to the door directly in front of the corridor. Turn the lights on and head for the night table at the right side of the bed. There's a note inside the drawer and also there's a book and a bookmark under the bed. There's a note written on the book mark. 

Leave your parents's room and turn left. Enter the door at the end of the corridor and read the note that's under the door. 

Tun on the light inside the room and head for the bed. Turn on the lamp and examine the note beside it. Now look to your right and you'll see a black notebook. Examine that one too and then leave the room. 

After leaving the guest room turn right and enter the door that's open on the right wall. There are a couple of shelves behind the easel. Open the drawer on one of the shelves and you'll find another note. Examine it to receive another journal entry. 

Enter the other door in the room near the shelves. Behind the door there's a table with a book and folder on top of it. Open the folder and examine the map. You'll receive a hidden location on your map. 

Now go back to your parents's room and enter the closet. Turn on the light and examine the wall at the very back. 

The wall will then open a secret passage that leads downstairs. Climb down the stairs and turn on the light. 

You'll find another map at the wall in front of the stairs. Examine it and you'll receive some more locations that you can explore. 

Part 3: Exploring the House



Turn right and open the panel on the left side of the wall. You'll exit into the library. Now go back to the bookshelf that has the folder where the filing cabinet code was written on. The panel right beside the bookshelf can be taken down. 

Take the panel down and examine the flyer that's hidden inside. You'll receive another journal entry afterwards. 

Leave your dad's office and turn left towards the foyer. Stop walking just before you exit into the foyer and look to the left wall. The last panel is loose. 

Take down the panel and you'll find half of Sam's locker code as well as Sam's novel manuscript. 

Now go back upstairs and head for the corridor that leads to the toilet (where you found the hair dye) and examine the panel in front of Sam's bedroom door. 

Inside the panel space you'll find a ouija board, the other half of Sam's locker code and another piece of paper. 

go inside Sam's room and open your inventory. Check the numbers for her locker code and punch it into the locker to get it open. 

Inside the locker you'll find a picture of a red headed girl. Examine it and you'll receive another journal entry. Then take the basement key that's taped beside it. 

Now head down to the first floor and open your map. Go to the western corridor and walk all the way to the end of it past the music room. 

Make your way to the last door and open it. It should open now that you have the basement key. Enter the room and descend down to the basement. 

Pull the string to turn on the basement light and turn around then approch the circular side table. Lift the 3 ring binder and you'll find some notes underneath it. 

Go back near the light string and you'll see a pink paper sitting on top of the on of the boxes that are stacked up. Examine it and you'll receive another journal entry. 

Proceed further inside the basement and turn left when you see some light streaming from the door. Turn left again when you see the heater and turn on the fallen lamp in the middle of the room. Diagonal to the light you'll find a piece of paper. Examine it and you'll receive another journal entry. 

In front of the table there's a suitcase. Open it and you'll find a small article clipping. 

Further down the path there's a book sitting on top of a round side table. Examine it then put it back down and it will reveal a note attached to its back. 

Head for the door that's slightly ajar at the end of the hallway and you'll find yourself inside a room. Take the cassette tape from the floor on the right side and place it in the cassette player. 

Also examine the letter inside the nightstand and the note that's tapped near the back room entrance. 

Head towards the back room and open the light. Examine the height chart at the wooden panel at the side and punch in the latest date onto the safe that's behind you. 

Now leave the room and enter the door that's diagonal from the one you just came out of. 

You'll find a scrap of paper on top of the table. Examine it to receive another note. Then look to the left and you'll see a bookshelf that's slanted. 

Head inside the path that's behind the bookshelf and keep going until you get to the next area. Here you can either turn left or right. We don't really need to go left since this will take us to the second floor. 

You can go up the second floor first and open the door via the left way first, then come back down the basement and continue exploring if you want to. 

Go into the room and approach the table with a pizza box on top of it. Examine the letter on top of the table to receive another journal entry. 

Open the panel at the end of the room (to the right side of the board on the wall). Then turn on the light switch to the right side of the panel. The door near it leads to the foyer. You can unlock it now or leave it for later. 

On the table beside the sofa you'll find another folder. Close it and examine the torn piece of paper that was hidden beneath it. You'll receive another journal entry. 

Then open the folder again and read the letter inside it. 

Head into the last door at the end of the corridor before you go into the corner. 

Turn on the lights in the dining room and approch the colorful folder that's on top of the dining table. There's a note inside. Read the white one then examine the pink one and you'll receive another journal entry. 

Leave the dining room through the other door in the dining room. Turn left and switch the lights open and get inside the kitchen. There's a note on top of the table. Examine the note and you'll receive another journal entry. 

Enter the other door inside the kitchen. It leads to the garage. There's a note on top of the table. Read it then pull the light string in the middle of the room. 

Inside the garage there's a note on the left side wall near the bike. After reading that note head for the green trash bin at the other end of the garage and you'll find a crumpled paper inside it. Read that and leave the garage and get back outside the kitchen. 

After exiting the kitchen turn left and keep going until you see a loose plate at the end of the corridor. Approach it and read the crumpled piece of paper that's inside it. You'll receive another journal entry after reading it. 

Now turn around and go right into the corner and enter the last door on the left side near the window. 

Turn on the lights and make your way to the next door and into the greenhouse. Go towards the white door at the other side of the area and you'll see a piece of paper sitting on top of the side table. Examine it and you'll receive a new hidden place in the house. 

Leave the greenhouse and back track to the foyer. You can open the door that connects the east wing and the foyer now. The secret panel is between the cupboards and the stairs. Examine it and it will open. 

Now enter the secret room and take the attic key. You'll receive antoher journal entry after taking the key. Now head back outside and up the second floor. 

You can find the attic to the left of the guest room. You can't miss it there's red lights glowing around it. Approach it and use the attic key to open it. 

Climb up the attic stairs and turn left. You'll see a makeshift bed in that direction. Turn on the desk lamp and examine the piece of paper that's on top of the bed to receive another journal entry. 

Turn left from the bed and continue following the path until you reach the back room of the attic. You'll find a notebook sitting on top of the side table. 

Examine the book and you'll start reading everything that Sam wrote to you and the game will end. 
