- The game begins by tossing Link into the overworld. On the starting screen, there's a cave at the top-left corner. Enter it and you'll find an Old Man who will give Link his first item: the Wooden Sword. Leave the cave.[1]

- Walk right a screen and you'll find the first enemy in the game, the Octorok. They'll shoot rocks at you, but they're pretty easy to dodge. Hit them with your sword once, and they're gone. Grab whatever they drop and head right. 

  - On this screen, you'll encounter another new enemy, the Tektite. These creatures will jump around the screen, so they're pretty hard to hit. Again, they only take one hit to kill so don't be too worried. Defeat all of them on this screen and head right. There are some more Tektites, so kill them and head right again. 

- You'll now reach an area that has a coastline and you'll find two new enemies on this screen. The first are Leevers that start off burrowed underground. They'll appear from beneath your feet to attack, so move quickly. They are quite a nuisance but fortunately can be killed in two hits. 

  - More enemies known as Zolas appear on this screen. They live in water and will surface and shoot a beam towards you. Your regular shield is incapable of blocking the beam, so try your best to avoid it. Zola can be defeated with two hits, but it can be quite difficult, so it is better to just avoid them. Continue and head right a screen. 

  - You'll encounter a blue variation of an Octorok on this screen. These Octoroks are identical to the red ones, but they are a bit tougher to kill. They take two hits to defeat. You're almost there, so just keep heading right for now. 

- Keep killing the creatures until you reach the eastern coast. Head up from here, as that's all you can do. Enter the cave on this screen and purchase the bombs that are for sale. You should have enough rupees for them if you've been killing the enemies. If not, go explore and collect some more. You may have grabbed the bombs from an enemy that dropped them. If you did, there's no need to buy them, but extra bombs could be useful. Exit the cave. 

 - Now, we'll need to use the bombs to get some new items. Backtrack down one screen, and left four screens. [2]

  - Place a bomb against the top wall and enter the cave you've just uncovered. The Old Man will offer you the Red Medicine or a Heart Container. A Heart Container is much more important, and we can get the Red Medicine at a later time, so pick up the heart container. Exit the cave.

- Now, head up one screen you'll find another new enemy, the Moblin. The Moblin is a common enemy, and poses much more of a threat than some other overworld enemies do. Besides the usual contact, they also come equipped with a bow and some arrows. The Orange ones take two hits to kill with the wooden sword, while the Blue ones take four. 

  - From here, head up a screen, where there are more Moblins and Octoroks. From here, go right, taking the top of the two paths. Then, head right again. Head up one screen, then right one screen. 

  - Here you will find another new enemy, the Armos. Touching them will get them to move, but moving them from the bottom will hurt you. They commonly hide treasures and secret paths underneath them, but you can't find them unless you move them. They take three hits to kill with the wooden sword. Move the Armos on the right to reveal a cave. Enter it to find some rupees hidden by a Moblin. Grab the rupees and leave

  - Head back left a screen and head up one screen. There are some more Armos and some Moblins here. Move the Armos on the right to get another rupee reward. This time, you'll get thirty rupees. Leave the cave. 

 - Again, head up a screen. Place a bomb against the wall at the top and enter the cave for 10 more rupees. Exit and head left. Place another bomb against the rock on the bottom-right side to reveal another cave, this one with a heart container. Grab the heart container and leave.

  - Now we can snag a new Sword, but first, there are a few things other things for us to get. Start off by heading right a screen, then up one screen. Here, we'll face a new enemy, the Peahat. Peahats are only vulnerable when they are not flying. They're pretty easy, and only take one hit to kill. Head right two screens and there are a bunch of trees, one of which you can enter. Enter it if you want to play the Money Making Game. What you do, is go up and grab any rupee you want and it'll randomly give or take away some rupees. There's no way to win for sure, but it's fun to play. [3]

  - Next, you will have to walk through the upper part of the wall to go up to the next screen. Refer to the screenshot above to see where the invisible stairs are. Enter the cave here and you will find another Moblin hideout. He will reward you with 100 rupees for making it up there. Leave the cave. 

Now, head back down and head left a screen. Head up the stairs and into the cave. The old man will give you a letter and tells you to show it to the old woman. This will allow you to buy potions from the old woman at various locations within Hyrule. Leave the cave. 

 - Go and head down a screen, then left a screen, fighting off any remaining tektites and peahats. From here, head up the stairs and left a screen where you will find another cave. Enter it and purchase the Blue Candle for 60 rupees. Exit the cave. 

 - After obtaining the Blue Candle head down a screen. From here go left two screens, then up another. You'll encounter a new enemy, the Blue Lynel, and a Zola. Avoid the Blue Lynel and enter the cave behind the lake to get the White Sword. This sword does twice the damage that your old wooden sword did. With your upgraded sword in hand, leave the cave.

- Leave the cave and head down the stairs. Start heading left and you'll find some falling rocks. They will just fall right down the screen and if they hit you, you'll be hurt. They're rocks, so it's impossible to kill them. Dodge the rocks for three screens, and then head down once and right once. Using your new Blue Candle, burn the far right bush on the bottom to reveal a cave with thirty rupees inside. Grab them and leave.[4]

  - Head down two screens and burn the bush at the top right corner of the screen to reveal another secret rupee cave. Enter it for another thirty rupees. Exit the cave and head left. Burn the fifth bush from the right and enter it for another heart container. Exit the cave. 

  - Exit the cave and head down a screen, then burn the bottom bush on the far [5]left. Enter the cave for another 10 extra rupees. Grab them and leave.

  - Now, to get the arrows. Head right three screens, up one screen, and right a screen, killing or avoiding the various octoroks and tektites on your way. Enter the cave and purchase the Arrows. You should have plenty of rupees if you've been following along. Exit the cave and head right a screen, then down a screen. Burn the far bottom-left bush. Enter the staircase and grab the 10 rupees. After leaving, head down and burn the bottom bush in the center. Enter the staircase and grab the 100 rupees. Leave the cave.

 - Head left four screens and place a bomb at the top of the wall here. Enter it for some more secret rupees. This time there's 30 for us to grab. Leave the cave and continue heading left for three screens. Enter the cave here and use the letter we got earlier. The old woman will show you some potions for you to buy. Either potion will fully restore your health upon use, but the red potion can be used twice. Buy one if you would like, and exit the cave. 

 - Leave the cave and head to the left one screen, down one screen, and left two on the lower side. There are plenty of Moblins on this path, so be careful. Here, place a bomb to the right of the little 'crack' in the wall to reveal another hidden rupee location. Enter it for thirty rupees and leave. Head up a screen and here, you'll find the Lost Woods. You can only leave if you go right or follow the secret pattern. Just head right for now. Here, there's a large chunk of trees. Burn the third bush from the top for 100 more rupees.[6]

 - Head up one screen, then left one screen and burn the bush in the bottom right corner to find a secret rupee cave with 10 rupees inside. Leave the cave and head right three screens, then up two. Tap the center Armos on the top row here to reveal a cave. The Armos will hurt you if you move it from the bottom, so only move it from the top or from the sides. Enter the cave and purchase the Blue Ring. The Blue Ring is a very useful item, as it cuts the damage you take in half. 

 - Now that you have all the necessary equipment, you can head for the first dungeon. At this point you can wander around, collect rupees, kill some octoroks, or play the Money Making game. When you're ready, make your way over to the start screen and head right one, up four, and then left one. Enter the tree trunk for your first dungeon: the Eagle.[7]


  - If you find that the enemies are giving you a hard time, there's a potion shop nearby that you can go to. A Blue Potion can be bought for 40 rupees, while a Red Potion can be bought for 68 rupees. From the dungeon head across the bridge and head up one and left one. Place a bomb right before where the wall juts out. Enter it for the potion shop.

Dungeon Map:
This is the entrance room. There are twelve stone statues in this room that look like enemies, but they will not attack you. The door to the north can be unlocked simply by exiting and re-entering the dungeon, but for the sake of this walkthrough, just head left to continue.

This room contains a new enemy, Keese, which go down in one hit from any weapon. Kill all three of them for a key to appear. Pick it up and head right two rooms.

In this room is another new enemy, the Stalfos. They are slow, but will only take one hit with our sword to kill. You will only need to kill the one holding the key, but if you want rupees, feel free to kill the others. Head left one and unlock the door.

You can kill the Stalfos here if you want hearts or rupees, but the northern door in this room is already open, so you can just head up.

This room has five Stalfos. Kill all of them for another key. If you have a bomb you can use it on the upper wall for a shortcut, but we're going around. Head right for now.

This room has a large amount of Keese, none of which need to be killed. Kill them if they're in your way, and make it over to the Compass. This lets you see the location of the Triforce in the dungeon, which is what we are after. Head left twice to continue.

In this room, the door will close behind you. That's no matter, as we won't need to turn back anyway. If you do ever want to head back, however, simply kill all of the Keese and the door will unlock. Otherwise, head up using one of your keys.

This room has a number of Gels, enemies that moves pretty slowly and only takes one hit to kill. Killing all of them will enable you to push the block in the middle of the room. This will open the door to the left, but it is not required to go there. Feel free to go on your own, though. Head right.

This room has quite a few Gels. Kill them all if you'd like, but you won't get anything. Grab the dungeon map in the center of the room. This shows you an image of the entire dungeon. Head up.

This room has three Stalfos, one of which holds a key. The door to the upper room is locked. You already have a key to open this door, but kill the Stalfos to get an extra one anyway, as you will need it later. Head up once that's done.

This room contains a new enemy, the Goriya, who attacks by throwing a boomerang. Kill all of the Goriyas in this room for another key. Once you have the key, unlock the door to the left and head through it.

This room contains a new enemy, the Blade Trap. They hide in the corners and come out once you're in their path to attack. They're invincible, so don't try to attack back. Push the block on the far left up to open the passage and enter the stairs.

This is a sidescrolling room, which usually appear in dungeons when you have found a new item. Grab the Bow, killing whatever Keese get in your way, then go up the ladder to leave the room. From here, make your way back to the room where you got the dungeon map by going one screen right and two screens down. Then head right using a key to open the locked door.

This room has three Goriyas in it. Unlike the last time you faced them, you have more room to maneuver around. Kill them all to get the boomerang. This item goes a short distance, but will stun most enemies. Some enemies, such as Gels and Keese will be killed by this. Head right.

This room contains another new enemy, the Wall Master, that come out of the wall and grab you. If you are grabbed,they take you to the first room in the dungeon. You should already have enough keys, but grab the one in the center of the room if you want to, making sure to avoid the Wall Masters, and head up.

This room contains the first dungeon boss: Aquamentus. Aquamentus attacks by shooting beams which can either be blocked with the Magical Shield, or easily dodged by speedy maneuvering. His head is his only vulnerability, so either snipe it with sword beams from across the room (if you’re at full health), or slash at him close range to take him down. 

This room has no enemies, but in the center is the shard of the Triforce of Wisdom we are after. Make your way over to it and grab it. You will be healed to full health and warped to the entrance of the dungeon.

  - Once you have the first shard of the Triforce, you'll be sent outside of the dungeon. Feel free to explore and experiment with your new items. Make your way back to the start screen and head right four screens. Head right four screens, killing the Octoroks, Leevers and Zolas you see on your way. Head up two screens and right two screens, and kill the Moblins here if you’d like. Then go up one, left one and up the stairs to find the next dungeon![8]

  - The potion shop near this dungeon is on the other side of the rock wall, so from the dungeon, head down one screen, right one screen, down one screen, left two, and up once, taking the far right path. Use the blue candle to burn the third bush from the top to reveal a staircase to the potion shop. 

Dungeon Map:
This entrance room contains two unlocked doors. Head through the upper one first.

This room contains a new enemy: the Rope. Ropes move slowly until they see Link, at which point they will speed up and try to hit him. They are rather easy to kill, so take out all of them and head through the now unlocked door to the left.

Kill all the Ropes in this room for a key. Once you have the key, head back to the entrance room and to the right.

This room has some more Ropes. Kill them and a key will appear. Grab it and head up.

Defeat the enemies in this room if you'd like to, and then head right using one of your keys.

In here, there are quite a few Gels. None of them need to be killed, and they don't really pose much of a challenge, so walk around them and grab the compass. You can bomb the north wall to get to the next room (and save a key) so if you have bombs available, that would be a smart move. If, on the other hand, you have none, just head back to the last room and go up.

This room has five Goriyas. You don’t need to kill any of them, but do so if you want some extra rupees. Also, if you kill a certain Goriya, they all will die. Use one of your keys to enter the door to the right.

This room has a few Gels. You don't need to kill any of them, just grab the map on the floor. The northern wall can be bombed if you have bombs, allowing you to skip to the next section. We won't do that, so head left and up.

Upon entering, the door will shut behind you. This room has many Ropes, and killing them all will get you a key and open the door. Make sure to get the key and head right.

This room has 3 Goriyas, but they're blue. These Goriyas are much stronger than their red counterparts, so be careful. There are also some Stone Statues in here that look exactly like the ones in the entrance room, but these ones will shoot beams at you. Just avoid the attacks, as the statues cannot be killed, and kill all of the Goriyas for the Magic Boomerang! This upgrade to the Boomerang goes much farther than your old one did, so it will be very useful for stunning enemies from afar. From this room you can either bomb the north wall for a shortcut, or travel left and up.

This room has another new enemy, the Moldorm. The Moldorm will remove a section of its body every time you hit it with your sword. Keep attacking it until its entire body is gone. After it is dead, a key will appear on the floor. Grab it and head right.

In this room are some Blade Traps and some Keese. Kill all of the Keese for some bombs, which you could either use on the top wall for a shortcut, or save for later. If you did not bomb the wall, travel left and up.

There are quite a few Ropes here, but there's not much to worry about. Kill them all to unlock the upper door, but head right for now.

This room has four Gels in it. Use your new boomerang to take them out quickly. After they're gone, 5 Rupees will appear. Pick them up and head left and up. The room north of here contains a Wise Old Man. Head up if you'd like to hear his words. The Old Man will mention that Dodongos dislike smoke, meaning bombs will damage them.

There's quite a few Goriyas in here, and very limited walking space, so make sure to watch out for those boomerangs they throw. After killing them all, some Bombs will appear and the doors will open. I recommend picking up the bombs, as we'll need them very soon. Bombing the Right wall will reveal a path to a room with a Wise Old Man. We can walk around to get there, however.

We have reached the dungeon's boss, Dodongo. Dodongo doesn't really have any attacks. He will sometimes close his mouth so we can't throw bombs into it.
Just drop a bomb in front of Dodongo and he'll swallow it. Do that twice to kill him. 
Once Dodongo has been defeated, grab the Heart Container he drops and head left.

 - After completing the second dungeon, you can explore the overworld and play with your upgraded boomerang. Head over to the start screen and head up once, left five, down once and right once. You'll be at the entrance to the next dungeon, The Manji. This dungeon is pretty hard compared to the last dungeon, so buying a potion is recommended. [9]

 - The nearby potion shop is actually one we've been to before. If you're at the dungeon, head left once, up once and right once. If you haven?t yet, show the old woman the letter and buy a potion.

Dungeon Map

There is only one door in leading out of this room, so head through it.

This room has a new enemy, the Zol. Zols are similar to Gels, only they can't be killed by the boomerang. If you haven?t upgraded your sword yet, they will split into two Gels when you hit them. Otherwise, they will only take one slash to kill. Pick up the key in the room and head up.

This room doesn't have as much walking room, but Zols shouldn't be too big of a problem to defeat. Head up after getting the key.

There's another new enemy in this room: the Darknut. This enemy is impossible to hit in the front, as it has a large shield protecting it (you have a shield, why can you get hurt?) You don't need to kill these Darknuts, but you can for some bombs. The wall to the right can be bombed to create a shortcut, but we won't go through there right now. Head through the door to the left instead.

This room has some Keese and Bladetraps in the corner. These enemies can be avoided, as the item we need in this room is on the floor. Continue left to the next room.

There are five Darknuts in this room. The door heading down is blocked off, and to open it you need to kill all of the Darknuts. Once you've done that, head through the opened door.

Eight Darknuts patrol this room and this room will most likely have some lag. You don't need to kill any of the Darknuts in this room, but doing so will get you some bombs. Head through the stairs on the right side of the room.

This is another side-scrolling room. Avoid or kill the Keese and grab the raft! This item well let Link cross bodies of water at a few docks around the overworld, but it has no use in any dungeons. Head out of this room, up once, right twice and up again to continue.

Every door but the one we entered through is locked. Kill all of the Zols in this room for a key. Head to the right.

This room has more Zols and Bladetraps. Grab the Dungeon Map on the ground. We're nearing the end of the dungeon, so I have no idea why Nintendo thought it would be a good idea putting it here. Anyway, head down.

The wall to the left can be bombed for a shortcut out of the room if you'd like to use it. Otherwise, the door that we need to go through is sealed, so kill all of the Darknuts to open it.

This room has a new enemy, the Bubble. The Bubble is arguably the most annoying enemy in any Zelda game. If you come in contact with it, you can't use your sword for a few seconds. They're also invincible and even more fun. This room has three of them along with some Zols and Keese. Kill them all (except for the Bubbles) to open the doors and get some rupees to appear. Head up.

This dungeon?s boss is Manhalda, and he poses far more of a threat than any of the previous bosses. Manhalda shoots fireballs that cannot be dodged by the Magical shield, and also deals a load of damage just by coming in contact with Link. To defeat Manhalda, you must destroy each of his four appendages, which can be done either by slashing at them one at a time, or by placing a bomb that hits multiple claws at once. You can even kill him with one bomb if it?s placed well enough! Each time you remove a claw from Manhalda, he?ll become faster and more difficult to avoid, so try to take him out quickly. Once you?ve defeated the boss, grab the Heart Container he drops and head up.

The Triforce rests in this room. Grab it and you'll be healed and brought to the entrance.

  - After leaving The Manji, head back to the start screen. Before we head towards the next dungeon, there's a Heart Container we can get. Head right eight screens, and up four. There?s a small dock here that you can use your raft on. Simply walk on to the dock and you will be transported to an island. Go through the door to find Heart Container #4! Grab the Heart Container and leave. [10]

 - Now we can head to the next dungeon. Use the raft to get back to the main landmass. Head left once and up once. Avoid the Tektites and Leevers here and head left six screens. Then head down three screens and left three screens. Use you raft from the dock on this screen to arrive at the fourth dungeon. 

  - This dungeon's potion shop is the same as the last dungeon's. Head back to the mainland and head down one and left one. This dungeon isn?t much harder than the last one was, so prepare yourself accordingly.

Dungeon Map

This entrance room is the same as any other, so there is not much to say. Head left.

This room has many Keese who can be killed for a key. Head back to the entrance room and then up.

This room has a new enemy, the Vire. Vires jump around rooms almost constantly, making them very annoying. Even better, when you "kill" them, they turn into two red Keese (which are the same as blue Keese, only they are red). Head right.

Take out your Blue Candle and use it to light up this room. Remember that trick, as we'll be using it a lot in this dungeon. Grab the compass amongst the Vires and head left and up once.

This room has numerous Keese, but none need to be killed. Grab the key in the center and head left.

This room is dark and has a few Vires in it. Use your Candle so you can see, and head up.

Also dark. Use your candle so you can see, grab the Key and head up.

Use your Candle in this room, as it is also dark. The first thing you'll notice is a river in this room. You can't go any further up, so use a key to head right for now.

This room has a complex waterway and a number of Vires. I'd recommend the Boomerang, because there's going to be a lot of Keese. Kill all the Vires to unlock the door to the right and head through it.

This room contains a new enemy: the Like-Like. If one grabs Link, it will render him motionless for a short amount of time and steal his Magical Shield! Kill all but the Bubbles in this room and push the left block to reveal a staircase.

Avoid the Keese and grab your newest addition to your inventory, the Stepladder. The stepladder lets you cross small rivers and waterways. Head back to the room with the river and use your stepladder to gain access to the next room.

With your new stepladder, you can walk right through the center of this room. You can also use the stepladder defensively. Because most enemies won?t be able to reach you when you are on the water, you can safely slash away at them. Anyway, head right.

There will most likely be a Gel in your path to get to the Dungeon Map, so kill it if necessary and grab the Map. You can bomb the upper wall for a hidden Rupee room (even though the map doesn't show anything). Head left and up.

This room has a miniboss, Manhandla. Use the same methods to defeat Manhalda as you did in Level 3. Once you defeat him, he will drop bombs which can be used on the right wall to find a hidden rupee room! Head up from Manhalda?s room to continue.

If you've been following the guide, this will be your second Old Man encounter in a dungeon. The Wise Old Man often tells you mostly useless hints. This Old Man is telling us that a screen below where we got our White Sword, we should walk into the waterfall there. Feel free to do it. I won't ruin the surprise.
Well, anyway, head Right.

Use your candle in this room, grab the key and head right, avoiding the Keese. The bottom wall can be bombed for an entrance into a hidden Rupee Room.

This room is dark, so use your candle. There are no "real" enemies in this room, but the Blade Traps do pose a problem. There is a block in our path making it almost impossible to avoid them. To make it past them, walk into their path and then run back in the doorway (without actually leaving). While they're recoiling, take a run for it. Head down once you've avoided them.

If you'd like some extra rupees, placing a bomb against the left wall will open a passage to a secret rupee stash. Otherwise, defeat the enemies here and push the block on the left to open the door to the right. Head through it.

This room contains the dungeon boss: Gleeok. Gleeok shoots fireballs that cannot be blocked by the Magical Shield, so you must try your best to dodge them. Slash at one of Gleeok?s heads a few times to sever it from his body, at which point the decapitated head will bounce around the room dealing damage on contact. Try to kill the second head quickly while avoiding the red one to defeat the boss and earn your Heart Container. Head up.

In this room is the Triforce. You should know the drill by now, so grab the Triforce and you'll be sent to the entrance.

 - After completing the last dungeon, you got the Stepladder which allows you to get the next Heart Container! If you've been following along, you passed a Heart Container we couldn't reach before. Well, now you can finally get it! Head right 8 screens avoiding or killing any of the enemies and then up two. Use your Stepladder to walk out to the final hidden Heart Container. [11]

  - Now that you have twelve Heart Containers, you can get the last sword upgrade. From the Heart Container, head up two, left one, up one, and left seven. A river is on this screen, but with your Stepladder, you can cross it, making the journey to Nothern Hyrule much easier. Cross the river and head left one, down one, left one, up one, and left one. There are some Armos statues on this screen. Tap the far right one on the top row to find a hidden Power Bracelet. With this Bracelet, you can push boulders out of the way to reveal some staircases that allow you to warp. How convenient!

  - Continue to head left once more and then head down one and left two. In the graveyard, there is a new enemy. This enemy is the Ghini. Ghinis are incredibly hard to defeat and touching any of the graves will make another one appear. 

  - Head up avoiding any graves and Ghinis. On this screen, walk to the center row of graves push the right-center one to make a staircase appear. The Old Man here offers you the Magical Sword, the best sword in the game! Pick it up and you can go to the next dungeon.


  - Head down one, right two and up using the staircase on the left. Now that you have the Power Bracelet, you can push these boulders. Move the left boulder in the rock formation to make a staircase appear. Enter the staircase and take the far right path. You'll be transported to the warp point closest to the next dungeon. 


  - The Potion Shop nearby is hidden, and you have to find it before you enter the Lost Hills, otherwise, it'll be a long journey back to it. From the warp point, head left one, up one and right one. On the right side of the top wall, place a bomb to unveil the Potion Shop.

  - From the warp point, head left twice. You?ll be taken to the Lost Hills, which can only be exited by heading left or solving the puzzle, otherwise the same screen will be repeated. Simply head up four times to reach a new screen containing the fifth dungeon!

Dungeon Map

This is the entrance room. There isn't much to do here, so head to the right.

This room contains a new enemy known as Pols Voice. They jump around the room annoyingly and also are immune to every weapon but your sword and the bow. Additionally, they take many hits to kill with your sword, but the bow will kill them in one hit, so use it if you have the rupees Kill them all in this room to get a key. You can bomb the north wall to find a room with an Old Man, but it's not really worth it. Head left, then up.

This room is dark, so whip out your candle. Also, there's a new enemy in this room. The Gibdo is basically a stronger version of the Stalfos. They take more hits to kill, and often hold items. Kill the Gibdo with the key and head up. The left wall can also be bombed for a shortcut.

This room has three Dodongos. You should remember how to defeat them. Kill them all, grab the bombs that appear and head up.

This room is dark, but there is no need to use your candle. Just pick up the Map and head down then left.

You'll be locked in this room, so kill all of the enemies and a key will appear. Head down.

This room will also lock in on you. One of the Gibdos will have Bombs. Kill him and use the Bombs on the left wall. The right wall can also be bombed, but it's not needed right now.

There's a blue form of the Darknut in this room. They are the same as the red ones, but take more hits to kill. Kill all five and push the far left block. Enter the staircase that appears.

This is a secret passage to the other side of the dungeon. Just walk from one side to the other while avoiding the Keese.

There are no enemies in this room, so use one of your keys to head left.

Kill all of the Blue Darknuts, then push the block to reveal a secret passage.

Head on over to the other side and pick up the Whistle. The Whistle is a magical item that will transport you to a random dungeon that you have already completed. There are some other purposes for this Whistle, but that is the main use. Exit and head right and down once.

This room has some Keese. Kill them if you'd like, grab the key, bomb the right wall and pass through it.

This is probably the most useful Old Man in the game. If you pay him 100 rupees, he'll upgrade your bomb capacity to 12. It may not seem like much, but it is incredibly helpful. After purchasing it, head back through the secret passage and back to the room where you fought the Dodongos. Head right.

This room is dark at first, so use your candle to light it up. Maneuver around, or kill the Zols and leave this room. If you kill all the Zols, you can earn an extra five rupees. If you cannot afford the Bomb Upgrade, it would be a good idea to start saving now. Head up.

This room has some Gibdos in it. Kill them all and grab the key they leave. Head up.

This room has a few Red Darknuts. They shouldn't be too tough with your Magical Sword, but the lack of moving space will make it tougher. To make this area easier, you can fight the Darknuts by standing on the water where they cannot hit you. Kill all of the Darknuts to get the Compass for this dungeon. Head up.

Use your Candle to light up this room. THere are quite a few enemies, so either avoid them or kill them as you grab the key and head right.

Kill all five Gibdos for yet another key. Use your Stepladder to get to the island in the center of the room. Head left.

Ignore (or kill, if you'd like) the Pols Voice and unlock the door to the left. You can bomb the north wall for a secret room entrance, but it's just an Old Man with some information that isn't very useful right now. Head left.

Digdogger can be either the easiest or toughest boss in the entire game. As long as you know how to beat him, he'll be extremely easy, otherwise, the Stone Statues will likely kill you. 

Use your whistle to make him shrink. He'll then be only two sword swipes from death. 

Easy, right? Pick up the Heart Container and head up.

Pick up the Triforce in this room and complete the fifth dungeon.

  - There's nothing left to do in the overworld, as we've already gotten most everything we can. Using the Power Bracelet, you can quickly warp over to the next dungeon. From the start screen, head right two screens and push the left block up to reveal a staircase. Once inside, take the center staircase, as that warps you closest to the next destination. [12]

 - The Potion shop is directly under the screen where we warped from. Place a bomb against the north wall in between the two staircases and it'll blow open a cave. I'd recommend picking up a red potion no matter how good at this game you are, as this dungeon is extremely challenging. 

Dungeon Map

This is the entrance. Not much to do here, so head right.

In this room you?ll encounter the orange Wizzrobe, a new enemy that will appear very often in this dungeon. They teleport around the room and fire beams that you can block if you have the Magical Shield. Kill them all and a key will appear. Head back to the entrance room and unlock the door that was previously locked. Head left twice.

There is a trick to defeating the Wizzrobes in this room. If you kill one specific Wizzrobe the rest will disappear as well. Sadly, it is impossible to distinguish this one from the others. Kell them if you wish and head up.

There are some Zols in this room. Kill them all, grab the Compass and head up.

There are Stone Statues in this room along with a few Keese. Kill all the Keese for a key to appear. Grab the key and head up.

There's not much to this room. Just run straight through and you should have no trouble.

This room will give you a lot of trouble if you don't have the Magical Sword, the Magical Shield, and the Blue Ring. You'll be locked in with no way out. Kill all the enemies, excluding the Bubble, then push the left block and the doors will open up. Head up.

You don't have to kill the enemies in this room, and it would be difficult to, but if you do, 5 rupees appear. The right wall can be bombed for a shortcut. Do that if you want, but you'll miss an item along the way. Head up.

Gleeok will be the miniboss of this dungeon. This time, with three heads instead of two. Slice off all his heads and head right.

There's plenty of enemies in this room. Kill all of them for the Dungeon Map. Use one of your keys to head up.

Kill all of the Wizzrobes, push the left block, and enter the Secret Passage that appears.

Head over to the Magic Wand on the other side. This rod will shoot out a beam, just like the Wizzrobes do. It's just as strong as the bow, but you don't have to pay to use it! You should have at least one key right now. If so, head out of this passage and down two, skipping the next room in the walkthrough. If not, head out of this passage, down one and right one.

The key is just lying in the center of the room. Grab it while avoiding the Wizzrobes and head left once and down once.

The wall to the left can be bombed, or it already is if you decided to take the shortcut. Grab the key in the center of the room and head down.

Now that you have the Magical Sword, Vires will no longer split into Keese when you hit them! Kill all the Vires to open the door to the right.

Kill all of the many enemies in this room, push the block, and enter the staircase.

Well, not much to this room. Walk down the stairs, to the right side, and up the stairs.

None of these enemies need to be killed, and there's no reward for doing so, so head down.

Kill all of the Vires for a key, and try to avoid those pesky Bubbles. Head left.

Avoid the Blade Traps and the Wizrobes. Use your key on the north door and enter it.

Gohma is a very easy boss, as she only takes one hit to kill. 

Gohma will close her eyes and shoot fireballs at you. Eventually she will open her eye for a short window of time, giving you an opportunity to fire an arrow at her. After you hit Gohma once, she will die, so grab your Heart container and head up.

Run up and grab the Triforce. There are only two more to go!

  - If you haven't already gotten the first Bomb Upgrade, you really should. This next dungeon will require you to use many bombs. You'll also want at least 160 rupees, as you?ll need them to buy two things: the last bomb upgrade and bait. [13]

  - Once you've gathered enough rupees, head up one screen, left three screens, and up three screens. Tap the Armos statue in the center of the top row. Enter the cave for the Secret Shop. Using 60 of your rupees, purchase the Bait. The Bait is not very useful and is pretty expensive, but you will need it for the next dungeon, so it would be a very good idea to purchase it now.


  - Once we've gotten everything we need, we can head to the next dungeon. I will remind you, that we will need 100 rupees for a second bomb upgrade, so if you don't have that, start saving. Head down two screens, left two screens and up one screen. There's a pond here that looks sort of like a fairy fountain, but with no fairy. Use the Whistle and the pond will dry up revealing a staircase. Enter it for Dungeon 7, the Demon.

  - This dungeon's potion shop is actually one we've used before. From the Dungeon, head down one, left two, and down one. I highly recommend picking one up, as this dungeon is pretty hard.

Dungeon Map

This is the entrance. Head through the door to the right.

This room has two Moldorms. We haven't run into many of these, so to refresh your memory, hit it's body once, and a part of it will come off. Continue until it is completely gone. If you don't have full bombs, kill them both for some. Either way, head up.

The north wall here can be bombed for an enormous shortcut, but if you do not wish to do this, avoid the Keese and head left.

There are some Goriyas in this room, but you can just run past them, so head right.

This is the first of many Digdogger mini-bosses in this dungeon. Just kill him like you did before for some bombs. If you don't want them, then you can just run past Digdogger.

There's one Stalfos in this room with a Key. Kill that one and head back left four screens.

There's a few Goriyas and some Stone Statues here. Bomb the wall to the left and enter through it. You can also bomb the top wall, but it is not necessary.

You can kill all the Keese for some more Bombs, or you can just ignore them. Head down.

This room is full of Ropes. Just grab the key and leave. Head up two.

There are three Dodongos in this room. Killing them will result in 5 rupees appearing. You don't need to kill them, just head up.

The Old Man in this room will give you the second and final bomb upgrade, allowing you to hold sixteen bombs. If you do not have 100 rupees, it is highly recommended that you get them as quickly as possible, as bombs are extremely useful throughout the rest of the game. When you have purchased the upgrade, head back down and right.

Kill all of the Goriyas in this room to unlock the door to the right. Head through it.

Kill the Stalfos with the Compass, grab it, and head left once, up once.

Kill the Keese and Goriyas in this room to open the door at the top of the room. Head through it.

This Digdogger will split into three instead of one when you play the whistle. But, you don't need to kill it, as it will not leave a reward. You can blow through the right wall, but you don't really need to. Head left.

You don't need to kill any of the Goriyas in this room, but doing so will result in 5 rupees appearing. Unlock the upper door and head through it.

This Goriya is hungry, so feed him the Bait that you purchased earlier and he?ll simply disappear.

If you have a key, then feel free to head left, but if you don't, bomb the top wall and head through it for a secret room. Make sure you grab the Map as well.

This secret room isn't on the map, but it's a good way to save rupees for the bomb upgrade if you didn't have enough. Bomb the right wall and head through.

Kill all of the Goriyas and head through the newly opened right door.

The key is lying in the middle of the room, but you need to kill all the Goriyas to unlock the door behind you. Go through it, then head down.

Bomb the right wall for another secret room.

Kill all of the Goriyas and push the block on the far left for a staircase.

Head to the right side of the screen to get the Red Candle. Unlike the Blue Candle, this one can be used multiple time on each screen. Leave through the staircase and bomb the right wall.

You can kill the Goriyas in here if you want some bobs, but otherwise just use a key to head right.

This is another Digdogger with 3 parts. Kill them before they gain too much speed to unlock the top door. Head through it.

You can either kill or ignore these Dodongos. Blow up the right wall and enter the new room.

This room is another confusing one. Kill all five Wallmasters that come out of the wall and push the center block in the far right row to reveal a staircase.

You can ignore the enemies here. Just bomb the right wall.

This dungeon's boss is Aquamentus. He is no different than the time we fought him in the Eagle, so he's extremely easy now that we have the Magical Sword. 

Hit him two times and he's dead. Yeah, pretty easy ... Sometimes I question why Nintendo does the things they do. 

Grab the Heart Container and head right.

Grab the Triforce Shard. Just one left to go!

  - Alright, this is it, the final shard of Triforce. It is recommended that you refill your bombs and purchase the bomb upgrades from the Lizard and the DemonDungeons if you haven't already. [14]

  - This dungeon is probably the most well hidden dungeon in the First Quest, as there are no clues of where it is and there's no visible entrance to it. From the start screen, head right four screens, up two screens, right one screen, down one screen, and right one screen. There will be a pathway blocked off by a lone bush. This bush is highly suspect, as it is the only one in it's row. Whip out your candle and burn it to the ground. A secret entrance has appeared! Enter for the Lion. 

  - This dungeon's potion shop is one you've been to before. From the dungeon, head left one screen, up one screen, left one screen and up one screen, making sure that you take the far right path. It should already be revealed, but if not, burn the 3rd bush from the top on the right.

Dungeon Map

Go Left.

Manhandla will be in this room along with two Stone Statues. Hurry and kill Manhandla to open the door to the left.

This room is full of enemies along with the infamous Bubble, so it's bound to give you some trouble. Kill all of the killable enemies, then push the block on the far right so you can enter the staircase.

Head to the other side of this side scroller and pick up the Magic Book, an item that upgrades the Magic Wand. This book is will cause the beams from your wand to set on fire when they come in contact with an enemy or wall. It can also be used to light up dark rooms. Head back to the entrance room and up one.

You don't need to kill Manhandla, just place a bomb against the top wall and head through it.

Kill all of the Darknuts in this room, grab the key they leave, and head left.

Grab the key lying in the middle of the floor and head left.

Kill all of the Darknuts, grab the key, and head right three screens.

The Compass is lying in the middle of the floor. Grab it and head left one, up one.

You don't need to kill any of the enemies in this room, but doing so will result in 5 rupees appearing. Use one of your keys and head up.

You don't really need to kill the Darknuts in this room, but you might as well, because you'll need to later. Bomb the north wall and head through.

Kill this Manhandla, grab the Map it leaves, and head up using a key.

This room contains a blue version of Gohma, who now takes three arrow to defeat. Once you?ve killed her, head right.

Kill all of the enemies in this room, then push the far left block to be able to enter the staircase.

Walk over to the Magical Key. This item allows you to open any door in the game, and it is infinitely reusable. It will be extremely useful for the final dungeon as you will no longer have to worry about collecting keys! Leave through the staircase, then head left one and down two. Kill the Darknuts in here if you have not already, and head to the right.

You don't need to kill the enemies in this room, just navigate around them and make it to the staircase.

You don't need to kill the Wizzrobes in this room, just blow through the north wall.

This dungeon's boss is Gleeok, this time with 4 heads. 

This battle is a lot easier then it may seem at first glance. Just slice of his heads and dodge the fireballs as you did the last two times you faced Gleeok. 

Grab the Heart Container and head up.

Grab the last Triforce Shard to finally complete the Triforce of Wisdom! Now, we can finally head to Death Mountain and fight Ganon!

  - Death Mountain is the last and by far, the most difficult dungeon in the First Quest. You'll want the bomb upgrades from the Lizard and Demon dungeons. You'll also want at least 68 rupees for the Red Medicine, as you'll very likely need it. [15]


  - After gathering the needed rupees and upgrades, you can head to Death Mountain. From the start screen, head right one, up five, left one, up one, cross the river, then up one, left two. this is Spectacle Rock. To find the entrance to the Death Mountain dungeon, blow up the left 'eye' to reveal a cave. Enter for the final dungeon.

  - This dungeon?s potion shop is one screen to the left of the entrance. It is highly suggested that you pick up a red potion, as Death Mountain is rather difficult.
  - The routes for completing this dungeon are different depending on whether or not you picked up the Magical Key in Level 8. Click on one of the links below to be taken to the correct section of the walkthrough

Dungeon Map

There's only one way to out of this this room, so head up.

This room should be empty, as the Old Man only appears here if you have not obtained the Triforce. Head left.

Light this room up with your candle and bomb the north wall to exit.

This room has a new enemy called the Lanmola. Lanmolas are basically just a stronger Moldorm, but with the Magical Sword, they're not too hard. The only difference between the two enemies is that you must attack the head of a Lanmola to defeat it. Kill them all and push the far left block. All of the other walls can be bombed if you feel like exploring. Enter the staircase.

You are going to want your Magical Shield for the rest of this dungeon, so be careful with the Like-Likes. Head right using the Magical Key.

Avoid the enemies in this room and bomb the bottom wall if you want the Compass. Otherwise, you can head right and skip the next two rooms of the walkthrough.

Bomb the bottom wall in this room. If you are low on bombs, you can kill the enemies in this room to get some more.

Kill these Wizzrobes and grab the Compass. Now head back up two screens and right one.

You will encounter a new enemy called the Patra in this room. The center Patra cannot be hurt until all of the smaller ones around it have been killed.

Yeah, I bet you thought you'd never see these guys again, did ya? Well, if you feel evil enough to take the shrimps out, go ahead and then bomb the right wall.

Kill the Patra for the Dungeon Map. After grabbing it, you'll notice how big this dungeon is. Don't feel intimidated, you hardly go through any of it. Bomb the north wall to continue.

Ignore these enemies and bomb the upper wall.

Watch out for the Bubbles and kill the Wizzrobes in this room. Push the far left block and enter the staircase.

Grab the Red Ring in this room. This item will decrease the damage you take to half of what it was with the Blue Ring. This means you will now take one quarter of the damage you would have taken with the original green tunic!Now, we'll need to backtrack. Head down two, left one, and up two using your Magical Key.

The Old Man in here says to go to the next room. Do so by bombing the left wall.

Kill the Wizzrobes in this room, push the left block and enter the staircase that appears.

In this room you can either kill or ignore the Zols. Head left.

Kill the Keese if you?d like 5 rupees, then head left.

There's a key in here, but we don't really need that, considering we have the Magical Key. Kill Patra and enter the staircase in the center of the room.

You'll need to kill these Wizzrobes anyway, so might as well do it now. Bomb the upper wall and enter it.

Kill the Wizzrobes while dodging the incredibly annoying Bubbles and push the center-right block to reveal a secret passage. Enter it to continue.

Head on over to the other side and pick up the Silver Arrow. This is an upgrade to your arrows that simply makes them stronger. They are also the only item that can deal the final blow to Ganon! Head back down one screen and kill the Wizzrobes to enter the staircase, then head up one screen.

There's quite a few Like-Likes in this room. Try to be careful avoiding or killing them and head up.

Avoid the Like-Likes and the Blade Traps and head up.

Place a bomb against the left wall and head through it.

Kill all of the Wizzrobes and push the left block. The staircase is under one of the top Blade Traps, so activate them and enter it.

Place a bomb near the left wall while avoiding the Blade Traps to reveal an entrance. Enter it.

Kill the Like-Likes and Zols, push the left-most block, and enter the staircase.

Now, for the final room before we face Ganon. Kill the Patra to proceed.

Ganon Fight

 - Upon entering this room, it will turn dark. Link will hold up the Triforce of Wisdom and the room will light up with Ganon appearing to be in pain. Let the battle begin! 


  - Ganon will disappear and begin to shoot fireballs at you, which are unblockable by your Magical Shield. He moves around in a pattern, so hit at one of the locations he shoots from and you'll hit him. Each time you strike him, he will change his pattern. 

  - After striking him four times, he'll become brown. This is your sign that he is nearly defeated. Whip out that bow and sling the Silver Arrow at him, causing him to explode. The Triforce of Power falls into his ashes, so grab it to unlock the doors. Head up. 

Slash at the fire and approach Princess Zelda. You will each hold up pieces of the Triforce, and the Credits will roll. Congratulations on saving Hyrule!
