Episode 1: Chrysalis
Episode 1 starts with Max standing in a forest, while a storm rages on around her. There is nothing you can do here other than walk towards the lighthouse, so do so.
Once you reach the top Max wakes up, and you will end up in class. Your teacher will be talking, and while he is you are able to look around at various objects on your desk.
To proceed, you need to grab your camera and take a selfie. Your teacher will notice this, and then ask you a question. You don't know the answer, so just pick anything. Eventually he will let the class go and you can walk around freely.
Although your main goal is to speak with your teacher, there are several other things to interact with if you want. There is also an Optional Photo that you can grab here. On the desk in the center of class is some writing that you can take a picture of.
Once you have the photo, you can either walk around more, or speak to your teacher. There is no correct answer to choose with him, so just say whatever and leave class. Outside of class Max will turn on some music as she walks through the halls. There are a lot of optional dialogues you can find here, but your goal is to get to the girls washroom.
Once you get inside the washroom, you need to activate the tap to continue the story. When you do, Max will see a butterfly that you need to take a picture of. Afterwards, a kid will burst into the room, and shortly after a girl will enter as well. Things will escalate quickly, and the girl will be shot, which triggers Max's powers. Time will rewind for the first time, but in this instance, it will go all the way back to your classroom.
Max will break her camera this time in a panic, and you will learn how to activate her powers on the fly, rewinding time until the camera is fixed. You will remember about the selfie, so take it again and your teacher will ask you the same question again. When you answer, your classmate will again speak up, but this time the game will tell you to rewind. For the rest of the game, you can now learn information, then rewind time to use this information to help you. In this case, rewind, then answer the question by giving the correct answer of The Daguerreian Process.
Have you been checking your messages? Every so often you will receive a text. To check them, simply bring up the menu and tab over to messages. I'm sure the people talking to you would appreciate the response!
This time when class ends and you talk to the teacher, he will bring up John Lennon. After the conversation, talk to him again and bring up Lennon yourself to make your teacher happy, and you will be able to leave class. Run to the bathroom and the events from before will play out again. This time you are going to try and stop it, but there is a time limit. Quickly, look at the maintenance cart, and you can move it. Once you do, you can bend down and grab a hammer. Use this to smash the fire alarm and set it off to save the girl. If you take to long the girl will be shot, but if this happens, just rewind time and keep trying until you do it all fast enough.
Once you do save her, leave the bathroom and you will get caught by the security guard. Eventually the principal will save you from him. Go speak with the principal, and you will be given a few choices. Eventually you will reach a crucial choice, that has lasting repercussions on your game: report Nathan or hide the truth. These choices don't have a right answer, it's whatever you want to pick. Keep in mind you can rewind to see which outcome you like best, but once you decide, you won't be able to change it minutes or hours later.
Once you do decide, head outside. There a lot of people you can now talk to if you want. Of course you can skip all this and just go to the dorms, but if you do want to talk to people, continue reading. As you exit the building, turn left and you can speak to a teacher, who will talk about the security around the school, and ask if you wish to sign a petition. This choice matters, so choose what you feel is best. There are also several students you can talk to here, but their dialogue is all optional.
There are two Optional Photos here. One involves the statue and fountain, the second involves the skater kids. If you want to see how to pick them up, check out our Optional Photos page!
Once you are done, head to the dorms. Here there are a few people you can talk to. There is also an Optional Photo here. Simply head to the far end and you can talk to Kate, if you turn around, you will see the photo opportunity. There are a few other people you can talk to, but to proceed, go talk to Victoria who is blocking the steps.

Max decides that to get them to move, you should ruin Victoria's day. To do this, you must first tamper with the paint bucket that is just to the left of where they are sitting. Then you will need to run further down the path, and enter the maintenance room. Turn on the sprinklers and this will cause the girls to stand up, which will then cause the paint to fall on them. You only have about 15 seconds to do all this, so if you take to long, or mess up, rewind time to the beginning and try again until you get it right.
Once you get the intended result, go over and speak with Victoria. You will be given another important decision to make, whether to be nice to her, or insult her further. Again, these choices have lasting impact on your game, so choose well.
Now that you are inside, you can head to your room. There are several white boards you can read along the way, even one you can alter if you choose. Your room is at the far end, on the right. Head inside, and turn to your right to see a mirror. You can take a picture here, and this is one of the 10 Optional Photos. You can interact with several things inside Max's room, however the item that will continue the story is a note by her laptop. Once you have it, leave your room and head down the hall. You will see a girl standing outside while another yells from within.
Speak to her, and she won't pay you much attention cause she thinks you don't even know her. Tell her that her last name is Watson and she will open up about what is going on. Head back down the hall and enter Victoria's room. When you enter, turn right and you will see a collage of pictures. Rearrange them, then take a picture, as this is yet another Optional Photo. You can check various objects in this room, to proceed though you must go on her computer and check her emails, then print off the one that relates to the issue at hand. Bring it back to the girl to have her calm down and let you in the room.
In the next room, you just need to grab your USB stick from her laptop, however if you want there is some more here you can learn. Pick up the pregnancy test near the computer, and she will get mad at you. Rewind time after doing it, then talk to her. There is now an option to say "I heard a rumor about you". This will prompt her to share what has recently happened in her life.
Leave her room and go outside. You will notice a student sitting on a bench, but if you watch for a few seconds, you'll see her get hit by a football. Rewind time, and warn her to move first, causing the football to hit a window. She will be grateful, and this unlocks an Optional Photo. Approach the broken window to grab the shot. When you try to leave the the dorms, you will see Kate being harassed by the school guard. Step in and help, or not, the choice is yours.
After this scene, run across the campus to the parking lot to meet Warren. Before talking to him, you can speak to a few other students. You can also approach the parked RV, and write on the window. This will allow you to take another Optional Photo. A long series of events will begin happening once you talk to Warren, which culminate in you meeting your old friend, and taking a ride back to her house.
Once there, you will head into Chloe's room. Like your own room, there is a lot of stuff to read and interact with, and we highly suggest you do so. One important item is in her closet. You can pull a box down then read a piece of paper that shows her grades from when she was in school. Make sure to rewind after doing this, as Chloe gets mad at you for breaking her snowglobe in the process. When you are ready to proceed, open the box under her bed to get the CD. When you do, Chloe will comment on some things about her life, then tell you to put the CD on, and leave her room.
Once out of her room, your goal is the garage, however there are a few other things you can do first. Head into her parents bedroom on the second floor. There's items to read here, and also you will see a bird hit the window. Rewind time, open the window and the bird can live, if you so choose. There are also items in the bathroom you can read over, and many on the first floor.
Once done, or you are simply wanting to proceed, head into the garage. There are several key interactions here that are worth checking out. The first is the gun cabinet. Go up to it, switch on the light then look in it to notice a missing weapon. The next thing to check is the cabinets. One of them has a TV in it, and if you turn it on and watch, you will find out that the house is covered in spy cameras. Finally, on the very top of the cupboards are some files. Pull them down and read them to learn that Chloe's dad has been stalking Kate. Make sure to rewind time after reading these though, or else someone might notice that they files have been soaked in oil. When you are ready to proceed, head towards the washing machine. The tools you want are on top of it but you can't reach. To get them, you must first look down at some cardboard. Push it under the table, then turn the washing machine on. This will cause the tools to fall onto the cardboard, so pull it out and grab the toolset. Make sure to be nice and turn the washing machine off afterwards.

Head back upstairs and you and Chloe will begin talking, and eventually it will lead to loud music and dancing, which becomes problematic when her father gets home. Chloe will insist you hide, so if you want to, head to her closet. Before going inside, make sure you move the lamp, or else it will cause everything to fall out. Once the lamp is moved, you can safely enter the closet and hide as her father comes in the room.
Eventually a decision will need to be made and this is quite a large one so make sure to check out your options carefully. You can stay hidden or step in. If you step in, you can take the blame or blame Chloe.
Regardless of your choice, you will eventually end up going for a drive with Chloe. Your destination happens to be the same spot from the beginning of the game, minus the massive storm. Instead of walking forward though, head back down the path. There is a large rock on the right with a bird atop it. This is another Optional Photo. Once you have it, you can head up the mountain. There are a few objects along the way you can interact with. Once at the top, stand behind the bench Chloe is on, and you can take another photo. This is the last of the Optional Photos for this episode.
Talk to her, and you two will open up about the days events. Reveal as much as you like, but once the conversation is over, Max will be forced into another flashback. This time as you climb the mountain, obstacles will fall at you, so you will need to rewind time in order to get past each one. When you reach the top, read the newspaper to find out that these events are only a few days away. This will snap you from your vision, and will also lead into the final scene with Chloe, before Episode 1: Chrysalis ends.


Episode 2: Out of Time
Episode 2 begins with Max sleeping. Wake her up and you can walk around her room. There are several objects you can interact with here, but the one of importance is her plant near the window. Water it, because if you do not it will die.
Once you are ready to leave, grab her shower supplies which sit in her closet to the right of her door. Leave the room and head to the showers, which are down the hall and to the left.
While enroute, you will see Alyssa. She gets hit by a roll of toilet paper. If you stand beside her then rewind time, you can warn her to move, which is something she will remember.
After saving her, head into the showers. Talk to Kate, and after that is done, you can walk into one of the showers and use it. While in there, Victoria and her friend will come in to harass Kate while you hide. Eventually, they will all leave and you can come out. The website that Victoria wrote on the mirror can be erased, which will make Kate feel better later on.
After cleaning it off, you can exit and go back to your room. There are some whiteboards in the hall you can interact with, but it's not mandatory. Once back in your room, get dressed then grab Kate's book. It's under one of the many piles of random papers. With the book in hand, head to Kate's room. Once inside, don't talk to her yet. Instead head to the left side of her room and take a photo of her pet.
There are several other things in her room you can read which can help shed some more light on her character. One of importance is a card from her dad, which is valuable knowledge for later in the Episode. When ready, give her the book. While talking, you will have to make a decision about what she does: go to the police or wait to find evidence.
Kate is in a rough spot currently, so while talking, it's in your interest to be nice, and caring so that Kate will feel comforted. When finally done, you can leave Kate's room and head down the hall. Dana will call you into her room, so go in there and speak with her, and you will make a decision whether or not to go to a Vortex Club party. After that conversation, you can speak to a few other people, or simply leave. Regardless of what you do, when you are done in the dorms, exit through the door at the end of the hall.
Dormitories - Morning
Now that you are outside, there are three things you can do. First, head right towards the bench and garbage can. You can pick up the second photo here. Interact with the garbage to place a piece of food on the bench and lure the squirrel over. Make sure you take several steps away from the bench so that the squirrel comes over.
With the picture obtained, there are three people you can talk with. The first is the janitor, and the second is Taylor. If you speak with her, you can learn quite a bit about her personal life. The important thing is her mom, and once you hear about it, you can rewind time and bring it up to her to learn even more, and become closer friends with her. Once you have spoken with these two people, head towards the exit.
When you get there, you will see Warren. There are a few things you two can talk about, but one choice that is important is whether you go on a date with him to the movies. Once you are done, exit towards the school yard. A cutscene will play as you walk through the area, and then ride the bus towards the Diner.
Diner
The Diner is a fairly busy place, so before going in, let's take care of everything outside. First, before you even go inside, make sure to look up above the door to the Diner to see a whale sign. Take a picture of it, as it’s the third optional photo of the episode.
With that in hand, you can make your way around the back of the Diner. One path will take you towards a dog, who just barks at you, so go around the other way. There are a few people you can talk to here, some of which can offer valuable insight to the world, specially the homeless woman.
After talking to them all, head towards the fence in the back behind the Diner. When you get close, you can take the fourth optional photo.
With the picture taken, and everyone spoken to, head inside the Diner. Head around to the left of it first and into the washroom. There is graffiti all over, but the important one is the white graffiti on the mirror. Take a photo of it to obtain optional photo 5.
That's all the photos for this area, so head back into the diner. You can speak with a few different people here, although none of them have important dialogue. When you are ready to proceed, head to one of the final booths in the Diner and sit down.
When you do, Chloe's mom will come over and talk to you for some time, then offer you breakfast. As she brings it over for you, Chloe will come into the Diner and sit down. While sitting there, Chloe will want you to prove you have powers. You offer to guess what she has in her pockets. The first guess doesn't matter, you are supposed to fail.
After you fail, she will pull out what she had in her pockets. You will need to memorize details about each item, but don't worry, we did it for you!
? Panda Keychain.
? She has 7 cigarettes.
? She has 86 cents.
? She got her parking ticket at 10:34AM
After succeeding, she will ask for yet more proof. She will put you through another test, as you predict the next 30 seconds. You will first watch everything around you happen, then tell it back to her. The things you need to tell her are:
? Trucker drops his mug.
? ...and his partner leaves.
? ...and Joyce stops them.
? Jukebox goes crazy as a cockroach crawls on it.
After all this is done, Chloe will want to leave the Diner. When you get near the exit, your phone rings and another major decision will occur. You can either talk to Kate, which makes Chloe mad, or ignore the phone and leave.
Junkyard
The next area is a fun old junkyard. Chloe will want you to find 5 bottles, but while doing that we are also going to grab some photos.
Once free to walk around, head the old bus. You can take a photo of it! This is optional photo 6.
One of the first bottles is also found near the bus. It is sitting up on a red object, that is upon a cabinet. You need to interact with it first, then rewind time and use the crate that is to the right to reach it.
The next bottle is located on the hood of a car. The car is found near the clearing, where there are a few trees and an open grassy area. If you are having trouble spotting the bottles, make sure to just keep an eye out for the white lines that surround interactive objects while walking around.
While you are near this grassy area, look around and you will see a deer. Approach it, and Max will talk about it while the deer hops away. Follow it as it goes deeper into the grassy area and you will be able to take a photo of it, netting you optional photo 7!
Now that we have the picture, let’s get the third bottle. This bottle is inside a small hut. You can find the hut by the train tracks that run along the back of the junkyard. Enter the hut and you can find the bottle inside, along with several other objects you can check out and read.
The fourth bottle is found near the hut, by a campfire. Walk around the back of the hut, and you will notice that nearby is a small path leading through several stacked cars. Grab the bottle, and when you leave the wire spools will fall, so make sure to quickly rewind and walk pass them.
The final bottle is sitting high up in an old boat. Although tough to see at first, there is a small path near the boat that leads up and around to the other side of the wood plank. From here you can lift the plank and use it to reach the boat. Grab the bottle then return to Chloe. She will set them up and begin shooting.
Let her shoot the first shot, then rewind time and tell her how to adjust her aim, which for the first shot requires you to tell her to aim a bit to the right. The second shot will require her to aim up.
The next shot she wants to do a trick shot. If you look left, there is a rusted tire rim. Tell her to shoot it, and the bullet will deflect off it to hit the bottle. The next shot is the final one, and you simply need to tell her to shoot the car tire. If you are curious, you can tell her to shoot the gas tank to blow the car up, or even shoot the bumper which will cause the bullet to bounce back and hit Chloe. After bottles are destroyed, Max will pass out.
When Max wakes up, you will talk to Chloe then get up. Walk around to her right hand side, and you can take an optional photo!
After you take the photo, talk to her and a cutscene will play as Frank shows up. There is a lot of important stuff said here, but there is also a big decision to make. If you decide to shoot him, the gun won't fire. If you don't shoot him, he takes the gun.
After the choice is made, you and Chloe will walk out of the junkyard and lay on the train tracks. If you thought something bad would happen from this, you are right. After Max has another episode, she comes to and Chloe is in trouble. Quickly run up the ramp by her, and you will find a crowbar sitting in a cinder block.
You have two choices now. There is a giant spool you can push, by using the crowbar to move the wedges, allowing you to push the spool down the hill, smashing the device and move the tracks. You could also use the crowbar to enter the building here. Inside one of the drawers is a pair of pliers. Take them down to the fuse box by the track and use them to move the track the non destructive way. If you start running out of time, simply rewind a bunch to buy yourself some extra time. Whatever you decide to do, Chloe will be thankful and after a long cutscene will drop you off at school.
High School
Now that you are back at school, there are several people you can talk with. One of importance is Courtney, the purple hair girl sitting behind a table in the hall. If you talk to her about the Vortex Club and the dress code, you can learn some information and then go back in time to bring it up to her. This will impress her and you can get put on the list to the party.
Chloe's father is here, and you can talk to a few other people too. Head down the hall when ready and enter the science lab first. Warren is in here, trying to do a science experiment. No matter what you tell him, it won't work. However, if you go talk to the teacher, you can ask her what she would do and then relay that info to Warren. Tell him to add Chlorine, then stick around a few seconds and you can snag optional photo 9!
With that done, you can head to your normal photo class. You will be stopped by your teacher after he is done talking to Kate. You can tell him as much as you like, and depending on things you picked in Episode 1, his reactions can change. Once you are done with him, enter the room and walk directly forward. You can take a photo of the girl looking out the window, snagging you optional photo 10!
After taking the photo, go to the back of the class where your desk is and speak with Nathan and Victoria. This will trigger a long cutscene that eventually ends with all the students running from class.
Kate Marsh
The final part of the episode has all the students gathered around the dorms, as Kate Marsh stands on the roof. The cutscene will end and you will be back with Max, as she makes time stand still. Walk through the crowd and up to the front door of the dorms and the game will prompt you to go to the roof.
As you might suspect, the following conversation is quite important. Also there are points earlier in the game that can have an effect on this conversation. If you wish to save her, you will have to have done multiple things in the earlier chapters to show you care about her, such as answering the phone in the Diner earlier in this episode, or standing up for her in Episode 1. Below is a list of the following dialogue options that will lead to you saving Kate.
? You matter, not just to me.
? You're my friend.
? Nathan is involved.
? Be strong.
? Your father (Your sisters will also work).
If you choose these options, and had done things to help Kate earlier, she will step down and hug you. If not....
This will lead into a series of cutscenes, ending with you in the principal’s office with Nathan. While here, you have an opportunity to accuse Nathan, or you can keep your mouth shut about events. Whatever happens, you will eventually end up outside with Warren, and Episode 2: Out of Time will end.
Episode 3: Chaos Theory
Waking up from a nightmare, Episode 3: Chaos Theory has Max back in her room, still dealing with the events of Episode 2. There are several objects in her room you can interact with, but none are of significant importance. When ready, exit her room and go into the hallway.
The lights are off, so Max uses her phone to light her way. Head down the hall and into the showers to find Taylor. If you talked to her before in Episode 2, then you can have a friendly chat with her. You can also find out information about Victoria, then rewind time and bring it up to her.
When the dialogue is done, you can leave the showers. Now that you know Victoria isn't here, go back to her room (which is across from yours) and enter it. There are several objects here that can help shed a little more light on Victoria. More importantly, if you walk to the corner she has a desk beside her laptop. On the top is an action figure. It glows in the dark, but only if you shine your light at it for a few seconds. Stand still, with the light on it, and eventually it will light up enough so that you can take the first optional picture!
After getting the picture, you can leave her room. Head down the hall and you can go into Dana's room and speak with her, as well as interacting with several objects. When finished here, head to the exit and leave the dorms.
Dormitories
Now that you are outside, we have to find our favorite squirrel and get another picture of him. Head to the same bench where you took a photo of the squirrel before. As you get close he runs away, so stand beside the bench and rewind time. Quickly snap the picture after and you'll pick up optional picture two.
After you grab it, there isn't much else to do outside. Head towards the exit, and you will see the principal. He sits on the steps blocking your path, so rewind time until he has his back turned and is banging on the door. Quickly walk past him so that you don't get caught, then carry on.
High School - Evening
When you finally meet up with Chloe, a long cutscene will play where you speak with her, then see Victoria talking to Mr. Jefferson. When she is finally done, you and Chloe will enter the school.
Chloe will go into the office to try and break in, leaving you to walk around. There are two photos we can take, so lets walk the halls. Head to the science class, and on the teachers desk is Warrens project. You can alter his grade if you want, or leave it. There is also a fish tank here, so head over to it. Turn the light on, and you can take optional picture three.
Don't head out of the science lab yet, as there is another picture here. In the corner of the room, near the back door is a skeleton with a cigarette in its mouth. This fellow is used to obtain optional photo four.
Of course there are many more objects to interact with in this room, and in the other classroom, but that is it for photos. When you are ready to proceed, head back to the office and find Chloe. She is trying to break into the Principals Office, but is having a hard time and asks for your help.
No matter how hard you look, the keys seem to be impossible to find, and eventually Chloe will talk to you. This triggers Max to talk with Warren, about blowing the door open. Warren tells you some ingredients to find to make a small explosive to blow open the door. Below is the list of items and their location:
? Sugar - Found in the science lab on the teachers desk.
? Soda Can - Use the vending machine in the hallway to get a can.
? Duct Tape - This is found in the back of Mr. Jefferson's classroom, by a printer.
? Sodium Chlorate - This isn't found directly. Head into the science lab and you can find a chemistry book. After reading it, Max will comment how Sodium Chlorate is found in Weed Killer. Fortunately there is some Weed Killer on the shelf in the back of science class.
Now that you have the four objects, head back to Chloe. You will place the bomb, then blow the door open. As soon as you do, an alarm will sound. Guide Max into the office, and make sure you are on the other side of the door, then rewind time to a point before you blew it up. Now you will be on the other side, and can simply walk up to it and unlock it for Chloe.
Now that you are inside, Chloe will sit in the principal's chair and if you walk up to her you can snap optional picture 5.
Now that you have the picture, you need to walk around the room picking up various student files. Once you have them all, talk with Chloe to go through the principals computer. This will lead her to finding some money in the desk and you will be presented with a decision to take the money, or leave it. Whatever you decide, the two of you will leave and head for the school swimming pool.
Swimming Pool
Now that you are at the pool, speak with Chloe and she will wander off. Head through the area, checking out the various objects you can interact with. You will eventually find Chloe by the pool, waiting for you. She asks you to find the light switch, so head into the room behind her and go to the fuse box to turn on the power and activate the lights. Go back to Chloe and a long scene will play where the two of you swim and talk.
When you both get out, the girls hear someone coming and go hide. Chloe hides, but there isn't anywhere easy for you to hide, so simply use the lockers in the center of the room to block the vision of the guard. Just make sure to move around the lockers as he gets closer to the door.
Once the guard leaves the room, slowly walk back towards the pool, and Chloe will pop out again and the two of you will run for the exit. The two of you will make back to Chloe's house and head to bed.
Chloe's House
When you wake up, the two of you are in bed. When you get up, you can check out a bunch of objects in Chloe's room. When you are ready, interact with your clothes on the floor and Max will comment how they smell like Chlorine. Chloe will tell you to use her clothes, so head to her closet.
When you do, Chloe comes over and makes fun of Max, telling Max to kiss her. This is a major decision, so the repercussion will be felt later in the game. After, Max will grab some of Rachel's old clothes and put them on. With them on Chloe tells you to go eat, so leave her room. Don't head downstairs yet, instead go into the bathroom. Look into the mirror and you can snag optional picture six.
With the picture in hand, head downstairs. Go into the living room, and in the corner on top of a cabinet is a bird. Go up to it and scare it to make it fly to the fire place. Don't scare it again yet, instead go to the window that's to the left of the fireplace and open it. Now go to the bird and scare it and it'll fly out the window. Finally, leave the house by walking out the sliding back door. In the backyard, sitting on the fence in the back is the bird. Walk up to it and take optional picture seven!
This is all you need out here, but you can interact with some other birds who seem to have died, and you can also sit on the swing. Head back inside and speak to Joyce. She will ask what you want to eat, and ask you to get the ingredients. They are nearby, either in the fridge or in the shopping back by the front door of the house. While looking for them, you can also find their answering machine in the hallway. If you delete the message, you can save Chloe getting in trouble.
Once you have them cooking ingredients, head back to Joyce to get breakfast made. When prompted, go sit down and wait for her to bring you your plate, then eat the food. Eventually she will sit down with you and show you some pictures, before Chloe finally comes down stairs. Her and her mother will argue, and you will end up sneaking into the garage.
Once here, you will find his computer, but it has a password. You will have to look around the garage to find a potential clue to the password. There are several here, but the one you want is 11-27-08. This password is found in his car, under the sun visor. It is the date on a receipt from the Diner where he met Joyce.
Take the password to the computer to unlock it and learn what he has been up to. Take the info back to Chloe, and shortly after her father will show up, causing everyone to get in a fight. A major decision can occur here, as you can side with David, or with Chloe. Whatever you decide, it will culminate with you having to leave the house.

Diner
Back at the Diner, you and Chloe are going to try and get into Franks RV. She will tell you to try and get his keys. Before you do, there are some things outside to do. Standing out front of the diner is a trucker. Speak with him and you will learn the type of truck he drives. Rewind time and bring up his truck and he will tell you to take a picture of it, granting you optional picture 8!
The next photo is very close by. Head around to the side of the Diner and you will find a dead bird surrounded by a black vortex of ants. Snap a picture to obtain optional picture nine.
While back here, you can also speak to the homeless woman again. You can divulge a lot of information to her, and even warn her about your dream. This is an event that she will remember if you do, and can alter the future.
With all this done, head into the diner, talk to Frank to open up conversation trees with the cop and Nathan. The police officer will talk about the Prescott family. Rewind time and bring it up to him to learn more. Head over and find Nathan who is sitting in a booth. Talk to him and bring up what the cop told you to cause Nathan to give you even more information. Again rewind time, and bring up the Blood Oath, and he will give you information on Frank.
Now head over and talk to Frank, and either bring up what Nathan said about the photo, or what the cop said about the dogs. This will prompt him to pull his keys and other objects from his pockets. Grab the keys, and he will get angry. Simply rewind time now, and walk away with his keys. Go to Chloe and she will open the door as you throw the bone to distract the dog. This is a major decision, as you can throw it on the road and kill the dog, or throw it in the parking lot and save the dog. Regardless of what you pick, you will enter the RV after to look for clues.
There are several things in here to interact with. If he took the gun earlier in the game, you can find it. What you really are looking for is a knife. Once you have it, go into the back of the RV and there are a couple air vents. The one of the floor can be pried open, and you can find a notebook with a bunch of information about Rachel. Take it to Chloe and she will get mad about it and the two of you will leave the area, arguing in the truck.

Flashback
The final sequence has Max looking at old pictures, which suddenly causes her powers to go into overdrive and she travels back in time several years. Before doing anything, grab the camera off the counter to get the last optional photo of the episode.
While looking around the house, you can write on the fireplace, leaving a mark on it, and altering the future. You will also hear Max talking about trying to stop Chloe's dad from leaving. He will eventually get a phone call and grab his keys and leave.
His keys are on the table, under his hat, so rewind time then grab them before he does. Take them and drop them in the kitchen sink. If you don't, he will find them using a location tool. By putting them in the sink, you break the locator and he never finds them, eventually deciding to take the bus. When he does this, Max gets very excited, thinking she has saved the future.
This marks the end, as a long cutscene will play out and Max realizes her powers have caused a future she couldn't possibly of planned for.
Episode 4: Dark Room
Episode 4: Dark Room begins shortly after Episode 3: Chaos Theory. You will be with alternate reality Chloe on the beach, talking about things while Max tries to deal with the consequences of her time travel.
There are many dialogue options to select here, but none are important to your long term game, so be as thorough with the conversations as you like. Eventually you will end up back at her house, where you will continue to chat, and eventually be given a chance to walk around.
You need to find her drink, which is just on a table to the right, but you can also look at several other things, to learn the differences between this Chloe, and your normal reality version of her. Again, there is nothing major to interact with here, so be as diligent as you want with your investigations. Bring her the drink to advance the story, until a point where she wants to watch a movie. You can find it by looking in the dresser under the TV. Put it in the DVD player, and sit back down to watch it with her.
When morning rolls around, there will be more talking before Chloe says she is in pain, and wants you to get her morphine. The item is upstairs in the bathroom, but you can explore the house if you want, talk to her dad who is in the kitchen, or her mom who is upstairs in the bedroom. None of these are important, but you can further learn information about this alternate reality.
Once you have the morphine from the bathroom, head back downstairs to Chloe. Give her the morphine so she feels better, and the first major choice will occur shortly after. She will want you to kill her, and you have three choices. You can delay by choosing I Don't Know, but eventually you must decide, so choose well. In the end though, Max will travel back through time and in an emotional scene, you will watch as she lets Chloe's dad die, so that the world will go back to normal.
When you come back to the present, things are back to normal and you are in Chloe's room. The first Optional Photo can be grabbed here, by looking at Chloe before talking to her. When you are ready though, speak with her and eventually you will end up having to go to the garage.
Before going downstairs though, you will see a bird flying around upstairs. Go into the bathroom and scare it once, then follow it towards the window. Before scaring it again, open the window, go back and scare then watch it fly away. You can close the window now that you are done, and head downstairs. You will bump into her step dad, but no series consequences come from it. Continue into the garage, and begin looking for clues.
There is another photo here though, so head right towards the garage door. There is a board leaning on some boxes. Move it to get a photo of a nest and some eggs, then put the board back. There is a lot of information you can read about in the garage, but ultimately you want what is inside the locker. The easiest way to get in, is to use a crowbar to snap the lock. You can then grab the item, and rewind time to before you break it so it looks like you never did. If you are more of the detective type, you can look for the code to enter into the lock.
Once you have the information, head back to the stairs and yell to Chloe that you are done. If Kate is okay, you will go visit her now, and you can talk to her to comfort her and see how she is doing. If not, you will end up at the school.
When you gain control of Max, head forward and keep an eye on the grass on the left. There will be a pile of stones, which will net you another picture. There are also several people you can talk to out here, but if you want all pictures, the important person to find is Samuel. Speak to him about the animals, and then the squirrels specifically. He will feed one, then set the food done. Interact with it to feed a second squirrel, then wait until the two stand together. When they do snap another picture.
After talking with the other students outside, which we always recommend you do, head indoors by talking with Chloe. Make sure to take a look at all of the whiteboards, and when you find Warrens, interact with it again to write on it and leave him a nice note. There is also a photo here, so walk towards the window that has toilet paper lying in front of it. Look outside to take another photo. When you are ready, head into Nathan’s room, which is the one that has the whiteboard talking about the Prescotts.
There is a lot of wild stuff to see in Nathan's room, so take the time to look over as much as you can. Ultimately, your goal is to look at the floor right in front of his couch. You will see some markings, that will then prompt you to move the couch and reveal a secret stash of items. Take them back to Chloe, but as you two are about to leave, Nathan shows up and threatens you. Warren will step in, and another major decision will happen: stop Warren or let him beat up Nathan. Decide carefully as it will affect Warren in the future.
A brief scene plays showing you and Chloe deciding what to do, with Warren potentially being there as well. Eventually you will end up at the beach, as you're going to visit Frank and hope to get information from him.
Before getting far, make sure to look at the whales. One of them will allow you to take a photo, snagging you another of the Optional Photos. Once you are ready, meet up with Chloe and talk to Frank. This conversation can go several ways, but the safest requires you to pick a specific series of answer. First though, you must fail the encounter once. When you rewind to try again, Max warns Chloe, and dialogue changes slightly. Once you have done this, select the following to get a non violent outcome:
? Tell Chloe Be Careful
? No Fight
? I'm Sorry
? I Love Dogs
? Rachel Photo
With those choices, you should come out on the other end with Frank giving you the information, and you and Chloe leaving in one piece.
You will be back in Chloe's room, and looking at your amassed clues. Start with Frank's info first. You will want to select his notebook on the left, and the paper in the top right corner that has all his coded names on them. Next you need to match up Nathan's name to any drug deals. There are three sheets that have Rott on them, the code name for Nathan. The three pages are in the top left, bottom left and bottom right.
Next, let's do Nathan’s stuff. You will want his phone, the pin card, and the small paper in the middle with several scribbled numbers. Next you will need to guess the pin for his phone. Thankfully we know it, and it's 0829. If you fail to guess it, you can also enter the back-up code found on the plastic U.S.A Mobile card, 87897808.
Finally, we need to do the clues we found from Chloe's dad. The items you want here are the gps code sheet that has longitude and latitude codes on it, plus the picture of the red truck and another picture that shows Nathan punching Warren. Next you want to select the bottom right of the four longitude sheets, plus select the first photo in the top row that shows Nathan in a truck, and the bottom right photo, which shows the same truck.
Finally we must put all the pieces together. First we need to pick the text message. The one we want is in the middle, the top one, where it says Frank is going to have to deliver something with his final text saying to get the money out. Next, pick the entry on the far right, where it says Rott, boondocks 5g.
Finally, pick the photo of the barn. With these three selected, head to Chloe and she will look it all up to find out there is a barn owned by a Prescott on the outside of town, and that you two need to head there immediately.
When you arrive, you'll find the front lock. Quickly head around to the left, and you will see a bird. Snap a picture of it to get another optional photo. If it happens to be flying off, just rewind time until it returns. Now turn around and you will see a small opening the barn that you can use to get inside.
Once inside, start looking around at the various objects to learn more about the Prescotts. Your goal is to find a section on the floor that you can uncover and reveal a hidden trap door. You can't open it from here though, so climb up the nearby section, then pull down the generator and use it to help you climb higher. Once you’re at the very top, you can snap a picture of an owl hiding in the corner to get another of the Optional Photos.
Now that you are up top though, rewind time until the generator is up here with you. Now tie the rope to it, then look down and have Chloe tie the hook to the trap door. Push the generator and it will fall, ripping the door open. Head down there and you will find a locked door. Three numbers are worn out on the pad, so you need to guess the passcode based on those three numbers. Thankfully we know it, 542. Once inside, you can explore and find all kinds of photos and information, some of which contain Rachel. When you find the Rachel information, Chloe will leave and wait for you to follow. The two of you will head to the junkyard to find out a truth about Rachel.
When the scene ends, you will be back with Max as she is heading towards the party. There will be a few conversations before you make it to the party. When you get in the first door, you will be stopped by a fellow student for a minute, before you enter the actual party. There is a lot going on here, but before going far, take a few steps forward and turn right. Look up and out the window to get a photo of the moons.
Now head towards the other side of the pool, and you will notice Alyssa, the poor student doomed to always be hit by things. If you rewind time and warn her, she will thank you again for keeping her out of danger. Just past her and on the left is a door, head in there and you can snap the final picture of the episode.
Your main goal though, is to get behind the curtain that separates the party goers. Depending what you have done up to this point, your name will be on the guest list or not. If it is, then you simply need to talk to the girl, who will deny you access, then just turn around and go talk to Courtney, who will then let you in. If not, you will need to find other means to get back behind the curtain.
Once you are back there, you will quickly find out Nathan is nowhere to be found, but you can talk to Victoria. You can choose to warn Victoria or keep the info to yourself. This conversation can go a few ways, depending on how you have treated her up to this point. If you aren't entirely happy with your outcome, make sure to rewind time and see what other options you can get!
Eventually, when you find out Nathan is gone, Chloe will show up. Speak with her and she will want to leave, but not before watching a cutscene with Mr.Jefferson and the contest. From here, you will watch a lot cutscenes, and then have to walk through the junkyard at night, ultimately ending with another cutscene and the end of Episode 4!
Episode 5: Polarized
Episode 5 begins with Max trapped in Jefferson's Dark Room.
You can't do much right now, but there is one available option. You're able to try and detach yourself from the bindings. The one you want is your right leg, so look down and detach it. Now that it's free, look to your right, and pull the cart over. Now that you've pulled it over, look at the photo. Look at it again and Max will focus in on it to try and time travel. The following sequence is a cutscene, as you watch what Jefferson did to you earlier.
When you come back to the normal reality, you will see the cart again but now the contents have changed. There is a new photo on the top shelf, so look at it, then focus in on it to travel in time again. There are some options you can pick during the conversation, but the important part happens just as the conversation ends. Look to your left and you will see Max's journal. Once you see it, rewind time as far as you can, then when Jefferson goes to walk away there will be a speak option for him. Quickly talk to him and bring up the fact he has your journal.
With the journal now on the ground, Max can look at the photo to further jump through time. This time Max ends up back in the classroom of the first day, but she is determined to expose Jefferson. First you need to find David's phone number, so look in your bag on the floor to find a book, then flip through it to get to the phone numbers. Next, grab your cell phone, and Max will text David all the information about Jefferson. After this Max will stand up.
Optional Photo 1 can now be picked up. Walk over to Kate and comfort her. After the cutscene look at Kate and you will be able to snag a photo of her.
Go speak to Jefferson, and there will be a conversation with Victoria, then you will talk to Jefferson. It's a rather aggressive conversation, as Max doesn't hold anything back.
After this, Max is on a plane, as she has won the contest and is now heading to San Francisco. There is nothing important to look at here, just look around and interact with what you see and eventually the Principal will wake up, triggering another cutscene which will bring Max to the art exhibit.
Optional Photo 2 is now available. There is a lower section to the art exhibit. Head down there to find a red headed girl. Use her camera to take a picture.
You can walk around the area and look at the various photos and talk to people, but the important part is in the back, where you will find Max's photo. Max freaks out, and eventually you end up in the lower section. Run back to your photo and Max will use it to time travel, although you will get interrupted at least once.
You end up back in the Dark Room now, and just as Jefferson goes to drug you, David shows up.
Optional Photo 3 is briefly available. Just as David enters the room, rewind time as far as possible. Now, Max will interrupt Jefferson before he drugs her, and you can choose to have him take a photo, giving you picture 3.
Now during the fight between David and Jefferson you will need to rewind time several times as you tell David what to do so he can survive. First, warn him before he gets in the room so he doesn't get hit in the head. Next, tell him to grab the camera beside him and throw it at Jefferson. Finally, as Jefferson runs by you, look down and pull the cord on the ground, which distracts Jefferson and allows David to jump him, taking him down for good. You have to execute key choices in order to avoid David getting hit/scared during the fight. For this outcome be sure to choose the cup of water option. Be sure to warn David and after rewinding kick the cart with the water at Jefferson before he get's a chance to hit David in the face. Then last part is the same as above for distracting Jefferson. 
You will be freed, and now be able to talk to David. An important choice occurs here, where you can tell David the truth about Chloe or lie to him. If you reveal the truth, he will kill Jefferson, if you lie then he will think everything is okay and Jefferson goes to jail.
Max will now be back in town, amidst its annihilation by the tornado. Start walking forward, and you will hear various people calling for help, so let’s start saving them.
The first is Evan. He may be dead when you find him if you take too long so rewind time. Simply go up to him before he gets hit and speak with him to warn him.
After warning him, turn around and head to the large red truck. You will hear the trucker calling for help. You will need to head around the truck and climb over the fallen beam to reach him. Interact with him to lift the beam on his leg and help free him.
Head back to the road and start walking down it. On the right side you will see the ever in trouble Alyssa, who this time needs to be saved from a heavily damaged building. Walk up to her and speak with her, then look to your left to find a large wooden beam that you can use to get her down. Once down, she saves you quickly, then you can carry on.
Continue along the road and it will eventually funnel you towards a hole in the side of a building, with some growing flames. Enter the building, and you will see your path blocked by fire. A fuse box is nearby though so go to it and flip the switch. When you do, the man in the other room dies, but this must happen for now. Walk through where the fire was and turn left. Walk into the room where the guy died, then rewind time until he is alive. Talk to him, and he will get up and out of the water. Now go flip the switch again and this time the fire will go out without him having to die. Exit the building as well and head towards the diner.
Before long, the diner will blow up, which is most certainly a bad thing. Rewind time and you will see on the ground a flaming trail of gasoline. Rewind back as far as you can, then go up to the side of the diner to find a box of sand. Use it, dump the sand on the fuel and you will save the diner from destruction.
Optional Photo 4 can now be grabbed. After saving the diner, turn around and look at the dead whale to be able to take it's picture.
Now that the diner is no longer a fiery explosion, you can enter. The front door is blocked though, so head around to the side. Don't go in quite yet though!
Optional Photo 5 is easy to miss. Just before entering this side door, turn around and look up to spot a car on the roof of the building. Snap its picture to get this photo.
Once inside the diner, there are a few optional things you can do that are tracked. First, you can speak to Frank and tell him the truth about Rachel. You can also talk to Joyce to tell her what David did to save your life. If you don't want to do this, simply head to Warren and talk to him. Just before travelling back in time, you will be given one more choice: kiss Warren, hug him, or don’t show him any affection. Pick whichever you think Warren is worth, then look at the photo to go back in time.
You will now be in a long scene with Chloe. Pick what options feel best to you, as you explain the situation to her and try to convince her of everything that will happen. After it's all done, you will jump to the present, where you and her are together again on the beach as the storm threatens to destroy the town. Shortly after getting the pair united, things go sour as Max passes out and wakes up back in her classroom. Things play out differently this time around, and eventually Max will get up.
Optional Photo 6 is a quick one to pick up. Once you stand up, look at the etchings in the desk in front of you. Look at them a few times and eventually you will get the photo option.
When you go to leave, Jefferson appears and a very strange conversation will play out. Now leave again, and when you do, you'll be in the girls dorms. Kate is at the end of the hall, so walk around and then talk to her. Follow her through the door and you will be back at the beginning. Head down the hall and turn right, then go to the end to pick up the keys. They are for room 218, so find that one and enter it.
When you do, you'll emerge wearing Rachel's old clothes. You now need to enter her old room, so look on the board to your right to find out it's 224, the first room on the left. Enter it and you'll now come out as Victoria. Head down the hall to her room, which is the second last on the left. Enter and now you will appear as normal Max again.
Optional Photo 7 can be grabbed during this part. After Victoria, you turn back into Max. Walk down the hall and turn right and go to the window. Take a photo of the giant squirrels to get this one.
Now that you're Max, head down to her room, and when you enter you will instead be in the halls of Blackwell, except everything is backwards.
Optional Photo 8 is found during this backwards sequence. Head to where the girls bathroom is and you'll spot a skeleton in the corner. Instead of interacting with it, open your journal to get this photo!
When ready, head into the girl’s bathroom to teleport into a new area. The next few areas are all a large game of hide and seek. You need to traverse the paths while avoiding being spotted. Use your time powers to manipulate everyone so that you can easily get past them. The first is just a couple patrolling Jeffersons.
The next part is a rotating statue that has a light going around in circles. Stay behind cover, then run from cover to cover each time the light rotates past you.
The next section is the same as the first, although in tighter quarters and with a few more people with flashlights.
Optional Photo 9 is obtained during this locker sequence. Get past Warren, then take the first right. Turn right at the next corner then follow the path to the end to find Warren's locker, and a photo opportunity.
Once you get passed all the lockers, there is one more sequence where you must get through the junkyard replica. Again, simply dodge the lights and use your powers in the event you get caught.
Optional Photo 10 is obtained during this junkyard sequence. You must pick up 6 bottles first while dodging the flashlights. The bottles are easy to spot, as they are highlighted when you near them. Once you have all 6, exit the area and you will see the bottles lined up on a shelf on the right, and a photo prompt will be there.
After exiting this sequence, you will be in for many cutscenes. There is a quick puzzle to solve, where you must find a 4 digit code. Enter any code first, then suddenly the room will fill with numbers. To find the correct code, look in the mirror. Remember it's backwards though since it's a reflection! Just in case, the code is 0311.
Once through this part, there will be more cutscenes, and a strange series of dialogue with an alternate version of Max at the diner. Eventually this culminates in the final decision of the game. You can either sacrifice Chloe, or sacrifice Arcadia Bay.
Congratulations, you have completed Life is Strange!





