Zebes is composed of five major areas; the rocky Brinstar, the fiery Norfair, the two mini-boss hideouts for Kraid and Ridley, and Tourian which is home to the Metroid population and Mother Brain. In the game of Metroid, you are free to tackle any area in any order you want. The only limitation is that many of the more advanced areas require particular Power-Up items or weapons in order to access them. There is no hard and fast rule that says you must complete Kraid's Hideout before you enter Norfair, or even before you fight against Ridley. The approach you take is entirely up to you.
Brinstar occupied most of the top of the map. From Brinstar, you can access Norfair, Hideout I, and Tourian. Hideout I is directly beneath the blue (left) portion of Brinstar. Norfair is located below the golden (right) portion of Brinstar. From Norfair, you can return to Brinstar, or delve deeper into Hideout II, which is located beneath Norfair. Tourian is the gray area located in the upper left corner of the map, and cannot be accessed until Kraid and Ridley are defeated.
You are not bound to the order presented in this walkthrough; it is simply an example of one way to complete the game. Since time is a factor in determining what kind of ending you receive, you may favor an alternate method that reduces the amount of time that Samus spends traversing across the planet. Or you may choose to power up as strong as you possibly can before facing either mini-boss. The only hard and fast rule is that Ridley and Kraid must both be defeated before you are granted access to Tourian.
Brinstar
Samus' mission begins in an area of tunnels called Brinstar. Here the tunnels are composed mainly of stone and there are long shafts leading up and down. Prepare to meet many dive-bombing Skrees and Rios as you search for Power-Up options. This is the easiest area of the planet to clear, so use it to learn all of Samus' moves. Remember that blue doors must be fired upon to open them.
Brinstar is very wide. As a result, it has been split up into two parts so that it can fit inside most browser displays. There is an east portion and a west portion, and they are connected by the bridge that straddles the two long vertical columns found on either side. You begin the game just to the right of label 1 on the map.


Points of interest
1) A rolling start
If you begin by running to the right, you will eventually be blocked by a wall with a passage that is too small for Samus to run through. She will need a way to shrink down in size and squeeze through the passage. Instead, start by running to the left. After jumping over the large outcropping, you will find the Maru Mari (Round Ball), a modular expansion to Samus' armor that allows her to safely roll up into a small ball. As a ball, she can roll right though low passageways with ease. Now you can progress to the long vertical shaft at the other end of the corridor.

2) Your first rockets
Before you can collect any key Power-Ups, you are going to need some missiles, and the easiest ones to collect is the pack found in the bottom passage of East Brinstar. You'll need to climb up the first vertical shaft to reach the bridge that connects East and West Brinstar. Then drop all the way down to the bottom of the second shaft to reach the door. As you run to the missiles, watch out for Skree that drop from the ceiling and the Zebs that appear from the pipes. They will fly right into you without a second thought. Once you collect the missiles, you will want to double back. But remember this location well; the elevator to Norfair is a short distance away.

3) Fire farther
While not required by any means, the Long Beam is such an essential upgrade that you should seek to collect it as soon as possible. And since you've just collected some missiles, you're ready. Head back across the bridge to West Brinstar, and start climbing again. Take the next door that you find to the left. In addition to the Rios and Zoomers that occupy this room, you may have to watch out for the swarming Mellows that descend on Samus when she enters. At the other end of the room is a red door. Red doors can only be opened by shooting five missiles at them. Once opened, they remain open forever. Blast the door down with your missiles and step inside to collect the first Chozo statue protected Power-Up, the Long Beam.

4) More energy is better
Hopefully, you aren't having too much trouble keeping your energy levels up. Whether you are or not, having more energy is always a good thing, so let's collect the first Energy Tank. Run back across the bridge, and enter the door immediately across from the exit. In this new section, you'll have to dodge the weaving Wavers and stay out of the burning acid below. If you find yourself taking an acid bath, try not to panic and move as quickly to a low-lying platform as you can. Jump out as soon as you can. You'll have to cross two small bridges over acid lakes before you reach the segment that contains the tank. You won't have to do anything special to collect it, just watch out for any Rios that wait overhead for hapless victims to approach.

5) Bring on the bombs
You're already headed in the right direction for the next power-up. As a ball, Samus doesn't have any offensive power. It would be nice to change that, so keep running to the right. You will reach another vertical chamber. Jump from platform to platform until you reach the next door on the left. Pass through it, and you may be reminded of the Long Beam chamber. Run to the end and blast the red door open (hopefully you were able to restock your five missiles by now.) Head inside to get the next Power-Up: The Bombs. You can set a bomb by rolling up into a ball and pressing B.

6) The trouble with ice
The ice beam is a handy weapon to have, but it can be difficult to collect and continue without the High Jump boots (although not impossible.) If you intend to visit Norfair immediately after completing Brinstar, you may wish to skip this particular Ice Beam in favor of a much easier one in Norfair. You should only collect the Ice Beam now if you intend to battle Kraid (it's not a requirement, but it can be helpful), or if wish to collect the Varia Power-Up (number 7) right away. If you would like to collect it now, return to where you collected the first Energy Tank, and pass through the door to the left. A portion of the bridge over the acid can be bombed, allowing you to drop through. You may be surprised to find that the acid is really just an illusion and doesn't hurt you at all. Beneath it is another series of platforms. At the bottom is a chamber, and at the end of that chamber is the Ice Beam. So far so good, but the problem is getting out. Samus can stand on a portion of the "acid" below the section of bridge that can be destroyed. To get out without the High Jump boots takes careful timing. You must shoot the section of the bridge, and wait until one second before the block reappears. Jump at the last second so that Samus' feet get caught in the reappearing block. She will take damage, but she will also be prevented from falling down again. Of course, if you can get the Waver to sink down into the hole, you can also freeze it with your newly acquired Ice Beam and use it as a platform. Another trick with your newly acquired Bomb is shoot the block above, and immediately morph, lay a bomb, get up, and as soon as you get to the highest point jump and you should make it.

7) Boost your defense
For this to work, you either need the Ice Beam or the High Jump boots. The High Jump boots make it easier, but the Ice Beam method can save you a lot of time and running around. To reach the high blue door at point seven with only the Ice Beam will take a lot of work. When you enter the narrow corridor with a single Waver between two blue doors, there is a single column of blocks in the ceiling that can be destroyed. Shoot these blocks when the Waver is in the process of traveling up, and can pass through the hole that you create. Help the Waver reach the chamber above, but do not kill it. Once the Waver is high enough, follow it by shooting the column and jumping up when the blocks are about to reappear. When you are in the upper chamber along with the Waver, freeze it when it is halfway between you and the blue door, and use it as a platform to reach the door. Enter the chamber beyond and shoot the red door at the end with five missiles to gain access to the most powerful defensive tool in the whole game: the Varia Suit. Now you will only take half as much damage as you did normally. Don't forget to collect the Missile Pack and the Energy Tank at the right end of this passage. To reach them, you will have to find a way to get beyond the apparent dead-ends by shooting various sections of the walls, or even jumping above them.
Destinations
A) Dropping in on Kraid
Now that you have the Bombs, you have the necessary equipment to access the first Hideout, the lair of Kraid. If you're ready to investigate it (although you want to visit Norfair first for more missiles and Energy Tanks and more powerups like Screw Attack, High Jump and Wave Beam), return to the first room that you entered right after you started the game. You'll notice that most of the blocks that compose the bridge are the kind of blocks that can easily be destroyed by bombs. So roll into a ball and lay a few bombs around the bridge to create an opening that you can fall through. At the bottom of this shaft is a door, and beyond the door is an elevator that leads directly to Hideout I.
B) The fiery home of power
If you think the Power-Ups that you collected in Brinstar were something, wait until you see Norfair. Some of the best Power-Ups in the game can only be found in its scorching chambers, not to mention the several caches of Missile Packs. Run to the end of the corridor where you collected your first Missile Pack to find the elevator that will lower you into the depths of Norfair.

C) The statues don't lie
If you climbed all the way to the top of West Brinstar and followed the long corridor to the left, you may be surprised to find an unusual chamber that contains statues in the forms of the two mini-bosses, Kraid and Ridley, along with an uncrossable chasm over an acid lake. If you haven't defeated either boss, the statues will remain dormant. If you have defeated one or both, then shooting the corresponding statue will cause it to rise. When both statues rise off the ground, a bridge is formed that will allow you to proceed to Tourian, the home of Mother Brain.
Notes
Next to the Ice Beam chamber
You may think to yourself, if you could blow up a hole on the bridge that leads to the Ice Beam chamber, perhaps you can blow up a hole on the identical bridge to the left. The fact is that you can and in exactly the same position. However, this bridge covers a chasm holds nothing of value, and features an annoyingly difficult method of escape involving a series of destructible blocks along the left wall. In short: avoid it completely.

A shortcut to the Varia Suit
After you collect the Ice Beam, it's possible to approach point 7 through the door on the right, instead of the door on the left. If you return to door that lead to the chamber where you collected the Bombs, you can climb up a few more platforms, and fire your Ice Beam at the Rippers and Wavers that float around in the portion of the shaft that contains no platforms. If you time your shots right, you can turn the Rippers and Wavers into frozen platforms that will help you rise through the shaft and reach the door at the very top, saving you some time in the process. It is possible that the Waver may not be present when you reach this section of the shaft, in which case you will not be able to proceed.

A difficult Energy Tank
As you can see on the map, there happens to be an Energy Tank hidden right in the corridor next to the one you start from. However, it is located in the ceiling, and it extremely difficult to reach. The easiest method to collect it involves the Ice Beam and the High Jump boots. Follow a Zoomer that is crossing the ground to the left, and watch it as it climbs the walls, and up to the ceiling, where it will proceed to move right. Wait until it reaches the overhang near the hidden tank, and let it come down close to you. When it is a little less than half way off the ground, freeze it and use it as a platform to jump from and reach the Energy Tank. This can be accomplished without the High Jump boots, but it’s rather difficult. You can also however freeze a Rio as well.
Hideout I
This hideout is home to the Mini-Boss known only as Kraid, a reptilian monstrosity which fires spikes from his belly. The entrance to his hideout is very close to the starting position of the game, but you won't be able to gain access to it until you obtain the power to lay bombs. If you plan to fight Kraid with missiles, you'll need quite a few of them. A number of extra Missile Packs can be found throughout his hideout.
Points of Interest
1) Go no further
Right from the start, blow up the first red door that you find with five missile. Enter inside and proceed just far enough to reach the first Missile Pack. Beyond this point, there is in fact little to no reason to investigate any further other than your own curiosity. No items can be obtained, so you might as well turn back around.

2) Hideout I's Energy Tank
Below the first red door, you will come to another red door. Blast it open and step inside. You may be surprised to find a rather small room with a wall to the right. But this wall happens to be rather porous. From the tiny ledge against the wall, you can shoot the wall and destroy one of the bricks. Roll into a ball, and lay a bomb that can boost you up and into the hole. Start traveling through the narrow passage, laying bombs whenever you are stopped by another block. Eventually you will arrive at a new chamber with an Energy Tank laying tantalizingly out of reach. If you jump on the first column in front of you, you can roll into a ball and fall to the right and land on the platform beneath the tank. Just watch out for the Zeela. From the platform, you can jump up and collect the tank, but it will take a little more work to escape. Jump on the right platform and up to the platform above it. Roll into a ball and bomb blast yourself through the narrow gap to the left. The easiest way to return is to roll off the left column on to the single block below, bounce off of the block to the left, and into the tunnel of the wall. The lower tunnel that is even with the floor leads to a dead end.

3) Pass through another wall
Return to the first blue door that you saw when you entered the hideout. It too leads to a rather small room, but once again, you can pass through the wall on the far side. Stand next to the wall and bomb blast your self into the tunnel. Bomb any blocks that get in your way as you travel to the left. When you are on the other side, you will only travel a short distance before finding your next goal: another Missile Pack. If you are playing to collect every item, then proceed to point 4. If you are really playing for time, skip 4 and move on to 5.

4) The underground tunnel
The only reason to head this far out of your way is to collect the one Missile Pack down here. From the Missile Pack at point 3, keep running to the left, and through the door at the end of the hallway. In the next vertical shaft that you come to, there aren't a lot of footholds to land on or jump from, but that's fine because your goal is to fall all the way to the bottom of the shaft, even through the acid lake illusion. Once you're at the bottom, shoot the door to the right and head through. Deal with the Side Hopper that occupies the tunnel, and run through the next door. After dealing with a second Side Hopper, blast the red door open. On the other side of the door, you will find the remote Missile Pack you were hunting for. You'll have a long trek to the right to get out of this corridor, and into the vertical shaft that will enable you to climb up and double back around to the original central column of the hideout.

5) On your way to Kraid…
Reaching Kraid's chamber takes a little bit of work. Their are two ways to reach him. One of the ways is a little easier than the other. The first way to reach him (which requires the ice beam) is through the lowest red door in the hideout's central column. The problem is, you can't simply fall down to it, or jump up to it. In order to reach it, you're going to need the help of your Ice Beam and the Rippers that float nearby. From the bottom of the shaft, begin by freezing the three Rippers in order to create platforms for you to jump on. As you jump up to the third Ripper, a fourth Ripper will come into view. This one floats close enough to the red door that you can use it as a platform to reach the ledge in front of the door. Blast the door open and run all the way to the right until you reach a new vertical shaft. When you enter this shaft, cling to the left wall as you fall down in order to reach a door that leads to the last Missile Pack in the hideout. From that last Missile Pack, return to the shaft and fall all the way to the bottom. Jump up to the door near the bottom and head left through the next chamber. Eventually you will come to a bridge that leads to a red door. Kraid's chamber is on the other side. Before you blow the door open, take some time to destroy the Geegas that spawn from the lake below in order to replenish your supply of energy and missiles. Head through the red door whenever you're ready. The second way to reach him (required if you have the wave beam) is to go to one of the first two doors on the left as you are going to Point 3 and Point 4. At the second tunnel before reaching to Point 4, drop a bomb and go down to a room under Point 4. You will first see a weak-like Kraid which will only take 3 missles to destroy it. Go through the room under Point 4. Drop a bomb in the first tunnel you get to after going through the room under point 4. After falling down, you'll be at the bridge that leads to a red door. Kraid's chamber is on the other side. Before you blow the door open, take some time to destroy the Geegas that spawn from the lake below in order to replenish your supply of energy and missiles. Head through the red door whenever you're ready. If you have the wave beam instead of the ice beam, you would have to go through the second way to get to Kraid.

6) A mini-boss battle
You will come face to face with Kraid. There are two basic approaches to fighting him. One is slow and strategic, designed to minimize energy loss, and the other is a lot more blunt. The slow method involves freezes his stomach spikes as he launches them at you. Don't freeze them while they are still in his stomach, or they will block the missiles that you fire at him. Once enough spikes are frozen, jump between Kraid and the spikes and pump him full of Missiles until the spikes thaw out and return to his stomach. The more direct approach is to roll into a ball and lay Bombs as fast and as close to Kraid as possible, even if it means passing through him and getting hurt. If you lay bombs down fast enough, you should be able to kill him before you lose 200 units of energy (or 100 with the Varia Suit), so make sure you have enough before you try this strategy. Either way, if you manage to kill him, you will be rewarded with an expanded capacity of 75 missiles.
Destinations
A) Back the way you came
Once Kraid is finished, you need to return to the elevator that leads back to Brinstar, as there is no where else to go from Hideout I. Typically, this involves returning to the vertical shaft that you fell down to reach Kraid and using the destructible column of blocks to rise back to the top of the shaft, and out. Be sure to stand ond the very edge of the left hand side of the blocks facing right so you can still fire on the blocks. This should prevent most reappearing blocks from knocking you off. If one does, you may be able to land on one of the solid blocks to your left rather than falling all the way back down if you get knocked off on the right side. Other players prefer to use the Quick-Quit technique of pausing the game, and pressing up and A on the second controller in order to get to the password screen, then pressing start to continue. This will place you on top of the very elevator you need to ride in order to return to Brinstar.
Notes
A difficult Energy Tank
Inside Kraid's chamber, there happens to be a well hidden Energy Tank that is extremely difficult, but not impossible, to collect without High Jump boots. In order to grab this tank, you'll need to shoot the block that the tank is hidden behind, landing in the acid in the process. Then you need to jump back out of the acid, roll into a ball, and drop into the gap where the tank is held. You must do all this before the block reappears and covers the tank up. The problem is that without the High Jump boots, it's very hard to make it out of that acid. However, if you tap the jump button, you will discover that it's possible to jump off the surface of the acid before falling too deeply into it. When you do, it's very possible to jump high enough to get out of the acid, but only if you stop tapping the button and hold it down long enough to jump very high. If you get the timing right, you can clear Samus out of the acid, and up to the ledge where you can roll off from and collect the tank. Once you collect it, repeat the same process of jumping off the surface of the acid to make it out again with Samus' health in tact. To do the roll off, stand on the right most block of the flat area ( not the last raised block ), roll into a ball and place a bomb. Hold right while waiting for the bomb to explode. The bomb will launch you over the last block and you'll land right on the Energy Tank, if the tank is still visible.

A fake Kraid
One of the favorite mysteries of the original Metroid is the presence of a second, off-colored and far weaker Kraid in a closed off section of the game. There are two methods of reaching this mysterious creature. If you are a master of the Wall-Jump technique, you can Wall-Jump through the ceiling of the bridge right outside of Kraid's chamber, and up into an unusual tunnel with a Side Hopper in it. If you pass through the left door, you will enter a long hallway, and you will find the fake Kraid at the very end. The other way to find him is to reach the low underground chamber that leads to point 4 (This is also the second way to reach to the real Kraid, which is required if you have the wave beam instead of the ice beam). When you enter the Side Hopper tunnel that contains (or contained) a red door, bomb the block directly below the left door. You will fall through the floor and down into a room below. The false Kraid is beyond the door that you find in the room. He looks and acts very much like the real Kraid, but he can only take three missile hits before he is destroyed. (One hit from the Screw Attack will also destroy him.)
Norfair
Norfair is a region of lava pools and glass bubbles. This is where you will find the Screw Attack, Wave Beam, and High Jump boots, plus extra missiles and energy tanks. Take the Ice Beam with you and freeze enemies for platforms in order to jump over high walls. In Norfair, many of the pathways which used to be clear have caved in or been filled by cooled lava. However, narrow pathways still exist inside the rubble. Never assume you've found a dead end until you've fully explored every wall, floor, and ceiling. Norfair is also along the path to Ridley's Hideout.
Points of interest
1) Two Missiles to the left
When you first arrive in Norfair, you are presented with a choice of doors. If you take the door to the left, you will find two Missile Packs before the path becomes a dead end. So head in that direction first. If this is your first visit to Norfair, begin to familiarize yourself with the new enemies. After a while, you will realize that many of them are simply stronger versions of the Brinstar enemies. After you collect the first Missile Pack, you will reach what appears to be a dead end, but you can tunnel through the wall as a ball, using Bombs to blast your way through. At the bottom of a vertical shaft, you'll find another door which leads to the second Missile Pack. Once you've collected it, there's nothing left to do but return to the start of Norfair.

2) First, make your jump higher
Norfair is full of difficult jumps, as is Hideout II beyond. Therefore, it is practical to collect the High Jump boots as soon as you can. You'll want to start out by running through the right door below the elevator and crossing the lengthy lava filled hallway that leads to the right-most vertical shaft. This vertical shaft is the entry point for every other section of Norfair, including the path to Hideout II, and it is much longer than it appears. As you drop down the shaft, you may think you've hit the bottom when you reach what appears to be a floor. However, if you bomb the right hand portion of the floor, you will find a hole that you can drop through to reach more of the shaft. Once you're through the floor, enter through the first door that you find. You'll enter a lava filled chamber occupied by Dragons who spit fire at Samus (They sometimes may not spit fire which seldomly happens). Blast the red door on the other side with missiles and you will obtain the High Jump boots.

3) Then make your jump deadly
While the chamber where you obtained the High Jump boots may look like a dead-end, in fact it is not. If you bomb the floor below the Chozo statue, you can gain access to the tube that runs to the left and into a wall. Bomb your way through the wall and into an entirely new hallway. In this hallway, you will need to combine the use of your Ice Beam and newly acquired High Jump boots in order to leap over the large walls the stop short of the ceiling. Freeze an enemy and use them as a launch pad. Continue to move to the left until you enter a green chamber composed of bubbles. Once again, do not be deceived by the floor or the ceiling, as both contain secret tunnels through which you can fall or jump to reach other locations. Travel up through the ceiling of this first green chamber to reach the door that will lead you to one of the most powerful items in the whole game: the Screw Attack. By collecting the Screw Attack, Samus' whole body becomes a lethal weapon as she spin jumps through the air, decimating enemies as she slices through them.

4) Wave goodbye to Ice
There are many more missiles and other powerful items to find in Norfair. Don't allow trick walls, floors and ceilings deter you from investigating further. From the Screw Attack room, make your way to the far left vertical shaft, and bomb through the fake floor beneath the fake lava. Fall down to the bottom and you'll find a door that will lead to many more secrets. After passing through one hallway composed of what appear to be green transparent eggs, you'll enter a green chamber with another false floor. Two Missile Packs are contained in the chambers below it. Continue on to another green egg room, where you must carefully navigate tall stacks of them so as not to fall down into the lava below and become trapped. The lava that the Dragon in the next room is sitting in is once again fake. Bomb the floor near the door to gain access to it and drop right through. The door to the left will take you to a chamber where you can collect the Ice Beam's replacement: the Wave Beam. The Wave Beam is twice as powerful as the regular beam, and it flies right through solid matter. Fighting tough enemies is much easier with the Wave Beam than it is with the Ice Beam, but you will not be able to turn enemies into platforms. Last but not least, there's a final set of missiles beyond the false lava chamber. Find your way through the wall that blocks your progress.

5) Norfair's only Energy Tank
There's only one more item to collect in the this section, and that's the one and only Energy Tank that you'll find here. The passage to the tank begins below the first green chamber that you entered on your way to the Screw Attack. You will need to navigate your way across a series of little rocks that can be destroyed if you shoot them. You're much safer leaving them in tact and jumping from one to the next. You'll reach a wall that you can bomb-blast your way through. Continue moving to the right until you reach a door. You'll find the second chamber with fake lava on the floor. Only this time, to get beneath it, you need to bomb the floor below the door and shoot the wall to the right of the lava and drop down. You'll find another door that needs to a new chamber. At first, it may appear that the best option is to take the upper path above the lava, but the dead end will prove otherwise. Instead, brave the lava and swim beneath the platform. You will arrive on the other side where you can jump up on to the columns and collect the Energy Tank at the top. Or a less risky way to get the Energy tank is very simple, just shoot the "block" at Samus' level and it will be destroyed. Bomb jump through and go across.
At this point, you may choose to continue to drop down to the bottom of the far right vertical shaft and make your way to Hideout II, and visit points 6 and 7 on your way back to Brinstar.
6) Two more Missiles
Once you've collected the High Jump boots, you'll be able to hurdle the barrier that stands between you and the two Missile Packs on the other side. The only problem is, you'll also need the Ice Beam to use an enemy as a platform in order to clear the barrier. If you currently possess the Wave Beam, you'll need to follow point 7 in order to obtain the Ice Beam again. Once you have both the Ice Beam and the High Jump boots, you can clear the barrier on the other side of the wall. If you have the Screw Attack, the Garutas and the Gamets that you run into along the way should present little problem. After you collect the two Missile Packs, head back to the right shaft.

7) A cache of Missiles and back to Ice
The High Jump boots can give you collection to a huge amount of Missile Packs as well as the second location of the Ice Beam, which you'll need to pick up before you travel to Tourian if you are currently wielding the Wave Beam. Jump to the top of the vertical shaft, and enter the door to the left where you can grab three easy Missile Packs. Return to the shaft, and stand on the highest platform. Fire up through the ceiling and find the gap that you can jump through. Climb up to the small chamber at the top of the shaft and enter the door to the left. After collecting two more Missile Packs, bomb the portion of the platform next to the wall to gain access to a hidden tunnel. Bomb out the blocks at the other end and you'll find yourself in a new chamber. Watch out for the Multiviolas bouncing around and jump into the shaft to the left. Drop down and enter the room at the bottom. You'll find yourself in a room identical to the one you just came from. Bomb the blocks in the wall next to the right platform and continue to the right. You'll end up travelling through the tunnel beneath the Chozo Statue that contains the Ice Beam. All that's left to do is continue to the right and through a wall, until you are back into the vertical shaft where you started from.
Destinations
A) Return to Brinstar
When you have completed your excavation of Norfair, you'll need to make your way back to Brinstar in order to reach Tourian (unless you haven't visited Hideout I and Hideout II yet to defeat Kraid and Ridley). With all of the power that you've accumulated, it shouldn't be nearly as hard to get out of Norfair as it was to get in.
B) Descend to Ridley's hideout
The door that sets you on your way to the second hideout, and Ridley's lair, is below the the door that lead to the High Jump boots. You'll have to cross a series of Nova-crawling platforms while Dragons breath fire at you. On the other end of the corridor is a door that leads to another shaft. The elevator to Hideout II can be found through the door at the bottom of this shaft.
Notes
Accessing the Ice Beam chamber with the Ice Beam
While you have to go to the highest chamber in the right vertical shaft and approach the Ice Beam chamber from behind if you have the Wave Beam (or the normal beam), you can actually short cut directly to the Ice Beam chamber if you already possess the Ice Beam. In this manner, you can collect the five Missile Packs above you without obtaining the High Jump boots. Just approach the wall before the chamber and freeze the purple Squeept that jumps up and down in front of it. Then jump on the Squeept and bomb jump into the wall and beyond. Now you can reverse the steps in point 7 and obtain the missiles early on.

Hideout II
The battle against Ridley will be a real test for Samus. Ridley is a mutant dragon who is a servant of the Mother Brain. Although Ridley's lair is called Hideout II, you can visit it before you beat Kraid if you prefer. Ridley's hideout is wide and expansive, although only a fraction of it needs to be visited. Follow the map and guide below to tackle this region in the most efficient way possible. If you came with the Screw Attack, you have little to fear.
Points of interest
1) Missiles hidden in the ceiling
As soon as the elevator drops you off in Ridley's hideout, drop down and head through the left door. Run through the tunnel and through the next door. The next room will look identical to the first, but this one contains a secret. Shoot at the ceiling near the right door. A column of blocks will break away giving you access to an upper floor. You won't be able to reach the door that you find without High Jump boots, but that shouldn't be a problem for you by now. Jump up and traverse the corridor to find a Missile Pack towards the very end. Then return to the bottom tunnel and continue left.

2) The Energy Tank trap
In order to reach the energy tank at the other side of the long green corridor below the hidden Missile Pack, you're going to have to find a over the very large column at the left end of the room. See the Notes section below for more information. Once you do, you may think the hardest part to reaching the Energy Tank is over, but you'd be wrong. The bridge area that you arrive at contains a secret pitfall. The stone floor may look solid but it isn't. The screenshot to the right shows you the placement of the pit. In order to collect the tank, you have two choices: either you make a perfect jump over the two false blocks and land on the other side, or you drop down the pit and attempt to reach the tank from the other side. Be forewarned, however. The shaft that will allow you to climb back up to the tank's level is incredibly difficult, as it involves jumping from one single width column to another, and if you miss a landing, it's a long drop down with no way to get back up.
Alternatively, roll into a ball, and lay one bomb in the middle of the last solid square, then tap left. The explosion will lift you over the gap easily, and you can then collect the tank.

3) The hardest Missile Pack of all
If there is one Missile Pack that players miss the most, it's this one. In order to reach it, you must make your jump from the left platform to the higher right platform with perfect timing. If you jump too early, you will hit the blocks above you and fall before you reach the other side. If you jump too late, you may fall off the left platform and lose your opportunity to make the jump again. If you have good timing, you will spin right across the gap and reach the other side, allowing you to continue through the door, and on to the Missile Pack found inside. If you fall down, look on the bright side: you've just taken a short cut to Ridley's lair, which is to the left. If you want to try again, you'll have to travel across the hideout in order to set yourself back up for another attempt

4) Another long corridor for missiles
Just like Hideout I, there is one particularly out of the way, remotely placed Missile Pack. Approach the bottom corridor from the left by falling down the empty vertical shaft. After running through a series of Multiviolas, Zebos, and Dessgeegas, you will come to the Missile Pack. After you collect the missiles, you should escape this corridor by continuing to the right. You will pass a series of Zebo emitting pipes, until you reach a section where the ceiling tiles are slightly different. You can jump into this strange section to get some distance from the pipes while you continue your trek to the right.

5) Face to face with Ridley himself
Whether you came from the shaft on the far right, or you took the shortcut and fell from the corridors up above, the time has come for you to face Ridley and take him down. He certainly won't go without a fight. His only real attack is to jump up and down and spit a series of bouncing fireballs at you. These fireballs can block your missiles, so you need to stand very close to Ridley in order to hit him if missiles are your weapon of choice. Most players like to strike Ridley from a location that he has no defense against: below him. If you have the Varia Suit, than you don't have to lot to fear from the lava at the bottom of his chamber. It will probably do far less damage to you than Ridley would. If you stand beneath Ridley, aim up, and fire the Wave Beam at him, he'll take every hit. It will take a while to kill him this way, so continue to jump up and down to minimize the damage from the lava. With this very easy strategy, Ridley will be destroyed in no time, granting you an additional 75 to your missile capacity in the process. The door to the left is one of two very odd doors that require 10 missile hits to enter. Beyond it lies another Energy Tank. Head in here and grab it if things go very badly for you during the fight with Ridley.
Sometimes, the fireballs will bounce almost vertically, and sometimes they will coast a ways. If they are coasting, you can safely stand right next to him. You can also screw attack Ridley when he jumps for massive damage. Naturally this is a lot easier if the fireballs are cooperating. If they are bouncing vertically, then you must let them bounce about six times or so, then freeze them if you still have ice beam, before approaching. If you have wave beam, it's probably easier to just attack from the lava.
Destinations
A) Back into the fire
Once you are finished in Hideout II, or if you forgot an important item and need to go back, you have only one option out of here: the way you came in. The only elevator out of Hideout II leads back to the fiery region of Norfair.
Notes
Getting over the tall column
Finding a way to get past the tall pipe at the end of the hallway (to the left of the elevator) can be tricky. Some players get lucky and manage to freeze one of the hopping Dessgeegas at a height that they can bomb jump over the column from, but there's a much more sophisticated method. Back towards the right end of the room are a few floor tiles that can be bombed, giving you access to a secret tunnel that travels the length of the corridor. When you roll beneath the column, bomb the left end of the tunnel to make the opening appear.

Tourian
The final leg of the journey is through the Metroid-infested halls and shafts of Tourian. Before you can enter, you must defeat both Mini-Bosses, then shoot the two statues, which activates a secret bridge. Then you descend into the realm of the Mother Brain. Make sure that you are armed with the Ice Beam, or your chances for success are slim.
Accessing Tourian
So you've beaten Kraid and you've beaten Ridley. The time has come to end your mission and bring the assault to Mother Brain directly. In order to do this, you must climb to the top of the long vertical shaft in West Brinstar, and enter through the highest door on the left. As you proceed to the left, you will make short work of the enemies who once plagued you so fiercely in the beginning. At the end you will reach a red door. Blast it open and step inside. Two statues of Ridley and Kraid calmly wait inside. Fire at each statue, and as long as you have defeated each Mini-Boss, they will rise and lock in place. Once both statues have risen, a bridge will form that Samus can only cross as a ball. Beyond the next door lies the elevator that leads to Mother Brain's domain: Tourian.
Points of Interest
1) Here come the Metroids
Mother Brain has tailored Tourian to be as close to a paradise for the Metroids that she is breeding as possible. As a result, they have free reign over the entire area. And it won't take the Metroids very long to notice your arrival. While they view every moving thing as a potential food source, they are especially attracted to the energy that gets emitted by Samus' Power Suit, and will not hesitate to home in on her and begin feeding. While powerful, the Metroid are fairly simple minded, and become easily stuck on the platform that lie between them and Samus. You can use this to your advantage by running back and forth, causing the Metroids to follow, and eventually clear themselves from the platform due to their own momentum. This sets them up perfectly for you to freeze them with one shot from the Ice Beam. Then destroying them with 5 missiles. Proceed as safely to the bottom as you can. If a Metroid happens to latch onto you, read the note below to learn how to shake them. The door at the bottom is the second and last odd colored door that requires 10 missile shots to open.

2) Add in the Rinkas
In addition to the Metroids that occupy this hallway, you will eventually come face to face with the Rinkas; energy rings that are by products of the Mother Brain's power supply. They appear and move in whatever direction Samus is in at the time of their appearance. They will never change direction once they start moving. Of course, the real threat is the continued appearance of the Metroids. Once you freeze them, whether you destroy them or not is up to you. If you have full energy and missiles, then there isn't much of a reason to blast them with the five missiles necessary to kill them. It's only truly worth your time to kill them if you are in need of more energy or missiles, as they provide super energy and missile drops, resupplying either one by 30 for every one that you pick up.

3) Navigating the maze
At the top of this shaft, you will need to weave back and forth from one platform to the next. Rinkas will pour out from every direction. If they get too annoying, freeze one or two of them for a brief reprieve. Metroids will hungrily wait for you to drop from one platform to the next. Use the same trick as in point 1 to make them swing up to your location and nail them as they fly up. Or run very quickly to the other end, jump down, and turn around and fire before they have a chance to pick up speed. The bottom of this shaft is a little more broken up, but no less dangerous. More Metroids will fly out and attack you simultaneously. Don't start blasting one frozen Metroid with missiles until every other moving Metroid on the screen has been frozen first.

4) The final run
This final hallway is your last chance to restock on energy and missiles before you enter Mother Brain's chamber, and you would be wise to do so. A majority of your energy will be lost, not during the conflict with Mother Brain herself, but on your way to reach her, so make sure you have at least six full energy tanks before proceeding. Powering up is actually quite easy. Simply run back and forth throughout the hallway until you obtain enough energy by defeating Metroids. They will continuously respawn every time you leave one portion of the hallway and return to another. Once you are confident that you have enough power and missiles, proceed through the left door.

5) Attack the Mother Brain's food source
In order to gain access to the Mother Brain, you will first need to blast your way through the five tanks that serve as the Mother Brain's food source, known as Zeebetites. Zeebetites are a self-replicating energy source contained by the tanks. Only concussive blasts can disrupt their replication. Therefore, you must pummel them with as many missiles as you possibly can, as quickly as you can. If you hesitate for even a moment, the replication process will resume, and they will return to their full state again. While you are attempting to destroy them, the cannons that guard the Zeebetites will fire constantly at you, and Rinkas will continue to appear as well. There's not much you can do about the cannon fire except avoid it, but you can freeze the Rinkas in an effort to limit their threat. In fact, you can even use them to create strategic platforms from which you can blast the Zeebetites without interruption.

6) Taking on Mother Brain
Mother Brain isn't going to simply let you walk up to her and demolish her. Her defense systems will be on high alert by the time you reach her. The cannons will be firing and the Rinkas will spawn continuously. Ideally, if you could stand in the place of the last Zeebetite and fire missiles at her all day long, it would be a very short battle. Naturally, the Rinka will home in on your position and try to prevent you from doing that. It would be a wise strategy to freeze them for as long as you can in order to keep them from interrupting Samus. If you happen to get forced into the lava in front of Mother Brain, you'll have a difficult time getting out unless you freeze one of the Rinkas and use them as a platform to get back up. If you have to fall in one direction or the other, it is far better to fall to the right.
7) No time for goodbyes
As soon as you pump Mother Brain with one more missile than she can withstand, she will deteriorate with a loud noise. As soon as that happens, it triggers a self destruct sequence that threatens to blow all of Tourian up, and everything inside of it. Beyond Mother Brain is a hatch that leads to a long vertical shaft to the surface of planet Zebes. While you have plenty of time to reach the top, it will take a fair amount of jump control in order to safely reach the top before the destruction initiates. Don't let your adrenaline get the best of you. Stay calm and focused and choose the jumps that you feel safest with. The sequence of platforms will repeat themselves a number of times before they finally change, indicating that you've reached the top. Assuming you make it in time, you will be treated to the ending of the game. Congratulations. If you don't make it out in time, it will be Game Over, and you'll be forced to start from the top of Tourian again.



