4. The story of how Shrek was started

In the beautiful all-too-perfect fairy tale land of Far Far Away, the king, 
and
queen have received word that their long-lost daughter Princess Fiona has
finally found her happily ever after. Delighted that their daughter has been
freed from her ogreish curse, King Harold, and Queen Lillian decide to throw 
a
grand royal ball for Princess Fiona, and her new Prince Charming.

Messengers are sent far and wide to find the royal couple and invite them 
home
for the ball. Little do they realize, of course, that Princess Fiona's new
husband is none other than the ugly ogre Shrek, and that Princess Fiona has
found "Loves true form" as an ogress. She, and Shrek are living blissfully in
their own ugly ever after.

Once they receive word, Shrek things going home is a "really bad idea" and is
not to happy about having to face Fiona's parents, and castle guards who 
locked
his wife in a dragon's tower. But Princess Fiona (along with donkey) 
convinces
Shrek it will be a good time, and together they depart for the far-out land 
of
Far Far away. And so, our twisted fairy tale adventure begins.


As you progress through the game, you will need to use certain characters'
special abilities to continue through the levels. Press the Y button to use 
the
special abilities. Some characters' special abilities have limited use and 
can
only recharged by picking up a certain item. Most objects that require a
special ability for activation have the special button icon floating over 
them.
This icon only appears when the correct character is selected and standing
close to the object.

Shrek:

Shrek is a big, green, ugly, smelly ogre. He enjoyed life alone in his swamp
until he found the love of his life: Princess Fiona

Fighting Style: Various punches, and wrestling moves.

Special- Ogre Lifting. He can lift, carry, place, and throw heavy items. (And
creatures) (Unlimited special ability)

Game Tip- If an enemy is dizzy, use Shrek's ogre lifting to pick the enemy 
up,
and then throw the creature at nearby enemies.

Puss In Boots:

He has steely eyes, swashbuckling finesse and really expensive Corinthian
footwear.

Fighting Style- Sword Fighting

Special: Tightrope walking. A move that can be used to cross ropes, and 
chains
to gain access to areas others cannot get to. (Unlimited Special Ability.)

Game Tip- Start Combat with Puss In Boots Jump Attack.

Princess Fiona:

Princess Fiona is not your typical damsel in distress. She is smart, tough, 
and
has been known to drop kick a band of outlaws.

Fighting Style: Various karate moves.

Special: Slow Time. Princess Fiona's ability slows down party members, but it
slows down everyone and everything else a lot more. This is a limited special
ability. To gain more uses, pick up an hourglass.

Game Tip- Use Princess Fiona's slow time to escape harm when close to death.

Donkey:

Donkey's got a mouth that just won't quit as well as the heart of a noble
steed.

Fighting Style: Donkey Power

Special: Donkey's special is the burro blast kick that can knock down 
creatures
and break specific objects. Most objects that can be affected by Donkey's
special will have a horseshoe symbol on them.

Game Tip: Use Donkey's burro blast on stunned enemies to get rid of them
quickly.

Gingerbread Man:

Ninja hero, and friend

Fighting Style: Ninja Candy Cane

Special: Cookie toss. Used to attract enemies. This is a limited special
ability. To gain more uses, pick up a cookie.

Game Tip: Throw a cookie to lure enemies into traps.

Lil' Red:

Championship softball pitcher with a "Can Do" Attitude.

Fighting Style: Kicks, punches, and apple toss.

Special: Rotten Apple Bomb- When detonated causes an area of affect attack 
that
damages nearby enemies for 20 points. Lil' Red can either let her rotten
apple's timer run out on its own, or by pressing the Y button again, she can
detonate it immediately. This is a limited special ability. To gain more uses
pick up a rotten apple.

Game Tip: Lil' Red can toss apples from long range, or attack with kicks and
punches when in close combat.

Big Bad Wolf:

Do not let the outfit fool you. He is big, he is bad, and he will blow you
away. Better watch out grandma.

Fighting Style: Claw swipes, and bites.

Special: Huff 'N Puff. This move can be used on enemies, objects, and fire. 
It
blasts enemies away from wolf, and damages them.

Game Tip: Use his Huff 'N Puff special to push enemies of ledges.


The storybook is the hub or shell of the game. In it, you can access new 
levels
called chapters, view the scrapbook change game options, enter the bonus
section and view images from the Shrek 2 movie.

Chapter Select- Enter this sub-menu to access the different chapters  
(levels)
in the game and obtain valuable. All chapters begin with a magic mirror
introduction.

Scrapbook- Visit the scrapbook to view all the snapshots collected so far.

Save Game- Enter this sub-menu to save your current progress.

Bonus- when enough snapshots are earned, this sub-menu will open up. By 
earning
more, and more snapshots, more bonus games will be available. When all the
snapshots are collected, you can access the Movie Stills sub-menu and see
images from the Shrek 2 movie.

Quit Game- This allows you to quit the game.

Every time you complete a specific goal, a picture, or "Snapshot" is taken to
help remember that moment in your game. There are a total of 70 snapshots
throughout the game. If you collect enough snapshots, you can open up to 5
bonus levels. Collecting all of the snapshots helps you get 100 percent
completion for bonus material concerning the new Shrek 2 movie!

Snapshots can be viewed by visiting the scrapbook in the storybook, or during
game play by accessing the Pause Menu.

When you have fulfilled the requirements of a snapshot, the screen flashes
white while the picture is taken and your snapshot icon will change to show
your current snapshot count.

Game Tip: Most levels have 7 snapshots to collect. The requirements to earn a
snapshot vary, such as defeating specific monsters, collecting objects like
magic beans, or reaching a specific point like the gingerbread man's house in
chapter 2.

Crazy Larry's Leprechaun Sop is open for business.

In his humble shop, you can find party up-grades for sale. These up-grades
affect your party's attack power, health, or health regeneration abilities. 
All
these lovely items will cost you some gold coins.

It's rumored that Crazy Larry's Leprechaun Shop is only available in certain
levels or hidden in secret places.

Game Tip: You should buy at least two up-grades for your party before you
venture into later levels. To earn extra coins, either play the bonus games, 
or
replay levels as often as you like.

Along your adventure, you will encounter the following items:

Gold Coins- Use Gold Coins to buy party up-grades or to pay tolls.

Magic Beans- Collecting twelve of these will earn you a snapshot.

Half Health- This replenishes your party's health by exactly 50 percent.

Defense Power-up: This temporarily makes your team invulnerable to all enemy
attacks.

Attack Power-up: This temporarily increases your party's attack damage.

Frog Power-up: This temporarily turns nearby enemies into 1-hit point frogs.

Shrek Platform- a box that Shrek can pick up, and carry.

Shrek Gear- a gear Shrek can carry, and place into machinery.

TNT Barrel- An explosive barrel that damages enemies, and objects.

Teeter Totter- Use two characters to reach great heights.


During Game Play, there will always be four characters on-screen except 
during
hero time. You control one of the four characters in single player games. The
computer controls the other three characters. You can switch at any time to
control a different character and use their abilities. (Except during Hero
Time) As you play, if another character joins the party, a character will 
leave
the group to keep the total to four.

Hero Time is a special mission where only one of the four characters plays a
section of the level. Since some characters are better suited for better 
tasks,
Hero Time allows each character to show off their talents and assist the 
party
through the level.

Shrek 2 can have up to four players. Each character is marked by a colored
selection circle that surrounds the character. Player one's color is yellow,
player two's color is red, player three's color is blue, and player four's
color is green. When more than one, but fewer than four players are playing,
you can switch between your character and the character(s) that's being
controlled by the computer. The game automatically detects installed
controllers; so additional players can join a game in progress by inserting a
controller, and pressing the Start Button. Or leave a game by removing a
controller. If another player joins your game, the new player controls the
selected character. If a player leaves a game, the computer takes over the
vacated character. Players can leave a game by pausing; selecting options, 
then
selecting choose players.

Character Portraits- Character portraits are at the bottom of the screen. 
Below
their pictures are red health meters. As a character takes damage, the line
moves to the left. Some characters have an ammo slot on the top right to show
how much ammo is left for that characters special ability.

Collectable Display- All the collectables in the level are displayed in the
upper right corner when collected or when you are pressing the Back Button.

Camera Icon- In the lower right corner the Camera icon shows you the Camera
Status.

Boss Meter- During Boss Battles, their health meter appears in the upper left
corner of the screen.

To access vital information and options during game play, press the Start
Button to bring up the Pause Menu with the following options.

Character info: Access this sub-menu to gain valuable information on your
character.

Up-Grades: Access this sub-menu to find information on up-grades and learn
which ones are affecting your party.

Scrapbook: Look at the snapshots for the level. To see the snapshots from 
other
levels, go to the storybook and enter the scrapbook sub-menu.

Save Game: Save your progress.

Options: Change settings on vital game play components.

Exit Level: Exit the current level, and return to the Storybook.

Return to Game- Return back into the game.

Snapshot Information: On the right page you will find information on the 
levels
snapshots.

When the storybook first comes, select new game, on the next page, select 
save,
on the next page select continue. Then select the o.k. Button. You will
eventually be hit with three data's to save on: Game A Game B game C. Pick 
one,
and begin your game.

Newlywed fever was sweeping through the swamp, when Princess Fiona's parents
decided to invite them to Far, Far away. While they were packing, Shrek
remembered he still needs some essentials before they left. Look, and move
around collecting all of the items in the air. After collecting 18 eyeballs 
by
killing snails, and slugs, (earning you a snapshot) go to where the gate with
the grapevines on it. To the left of you, have Shrek go up to the pole, and
press the B button. The Pole will move back, as the gate opens for you and 
your
three companions.

As you walk through the gate, you will see a man in a cage. Free him if you
want but he will ask you to save his other brothers. You will also see many
gold coins, and snails. Kill all the snails and or slugs earning gold coins,
and also snag all of the gold coins. They will be useful later on. There is a
platform near the ramp in the gate yard. Use Shrek's ogre lifting powers (Y
button) and lift the platform. Walk up the ramp, and you will be ambushed by
these weird woodsmen (from the first movie.) The lead woodsman will call the
rest of his merry men, and fight you.

These guys are very tough for our first fight, and they seem to just keep on
coming. These guys may take you more than once. It is, after all your first
battle. Keep using Donkey's burro blast is how I got them on my second try.

After beating all of the merry men, you have reached a checkpoint. You know
what that means, another snapshot has been obtained.

After you receive your snapshot, another gate with grapevines will open. Go
through the gate, and down the ramp, and hitting the target with Gingerbread
Man. (But first set free another man in a cage) Doing this will open another
gate with grapevines. As you walk in you will be greeted by an elf. He says
that he will let you through if you get some fairies for him. By a few he 
means
a dozen. To get the fairies, you will need to pick up that hourglass on the
left side of the screen. Use Princess Fiona, and her special ability for this
task. Press the Y button after you have the hourglass, and control of Fiona.
This is her special slow time. It slows down all of your enemies. Jump with 
her
o loose fairies, pressing the A button. After collecting twelve fairies talk 
to
the elf. A good job will appear on your screen, you know what that means; you
have just won a new snapshot.

After you talk to the "Wee Elf" Yet another gate with grapevines on it will
open. In this little cove, there are two turtles, and apple, and a target on
the water. You can either stun the turtles, or have Shrek ogre lift, and hit
the turtles against the target, or have gingerbread man hit the target with 
his
candy cane either way will work.

After the target is hit, another gate with grapevines will open, and there 
you
will find a cookie to use for Gingerbread man's special ability. The mirror
explains that this is Gingerbread man's special ability. A demonstration
occurs, and all animals are attracted to Gingerbread Man's cookie. The magic
mirror explains how to use the special, and then you move on.

In this next cove, kill all the enemies collecting coins, and free another 
man.
You will see a teeter totter on the top of your screen. The Magic Mirror
explains that you can have Shrek belly flop a character much higher and far 
in
distance. Have Shrek bounce a character, to the other side, and then the gate
with grapevines opens into another cove.

Here, there is another Teeter-Totter. Bounce gingerbread man to get all of 
the
coins above the Teeter Totter. Finally, have donkey, and Shrek come to the
edge. Shrek will yell because there are chickens all over his precious swamp.

In this task, you must first stun the chickens using Shrek's A, B Button. The
Shrek must pick up the chicken aim the target by holding the X button, and
throw the chicken into lil' red's soup. (Jeez could she be any more obsessed
with her grandma?) After doing this to eight chickens, you will earn a
checkpoint, and a snapshot.

Now is your chance to explore, go around Shrek's swamp, hitting platforms, 
and
opening gates collecting coins and just basically having a good time with 
your
Shrek 2 Video Game.

Now, go to a gate near the jump springs, where there is a picture of an
alligator, and a picture of a strange person in a costume. Use gingerbread 
man
to hit the target in the lake to open the gate. In here the mirror explains
that you should use Fiona's slow time at the right moment to get across the
bridge safely (Basically when the gators are off.) Do this, and get to the
other side.

When you get to the other side, you will receive a checkpoint, but not a
snapshot. Continue on the only way possible, until you come to a gate, and 
the
magic mirror. He will tell you, that only an animal kick could break the 
gate,
you know what that means, donkey to the rescue. Use his burro blast, and open
the gate.

In this miniature cove, all you will see is a hill with coins, and a hill 
with
a lever. Also you will see a potion and a Shrek platform. Move the platform 
to
the south of your screen upon a hill where a lever is.

In this cove, you will find grandma's house when you walk in little red 
riding
hood talks to her grandma about the chickens and how they got them. Then, she
introduces her grandma to her four new friends. Now, grandma tells little red
to round up some blackbirds. In comes magic mirror, and says Shrek is hungry,
and wants pie but who will be willing to "Bring home the blackbird? Fiona, it
is your Hero Time!"

Collect a lot of blackbirds, and Fiona's hero time...is over. After she 
returns
to grandma's house, it is time to say good by to a character. Gingerbread Man
says that it has been fun, but I got to go. Little Red Riding Hood asks if
there is room on the carriage, for she has a championship softball game to go
to. (Another funny element in the game of Shrek 2.)

A checkpoint occurs, and the storybook opens. Save your game again for good
measure, and then go to chapter select. Select the spooky forest, and the 
book
tells a story of how an evil witch came on Shrek, and Fiona's carriage and
turned the horses into three blind mice. Witches do after all need mice to do
witchcraft. The storybook tells of how she left a trail of cheese leading to
her haunted house. Shrek, Fiona, Donkey, and Little Red Riding Hood get out 
in
the middle of the forest, while Fiona complains that they have to find a 
potion
to change them back into horses. (Hint: in this level all that you have to do
is follow the pieces of cheese to the witch's house, beating the level.)

On the left side of the screen, there is a pole; on top of the pole is a 
bell.
Use little red to get the bell, and hit it. Hence opening the gate to the
forest. Go down the path, and two to three hunters will attack them. Take 
care
of them easily, and talk to the tree. He refuses to move out of the way. 
Shrek
tells Donkey to use his burro blast. Have Donkey do this, and cross the tree.
(Now a bridge) You will come into another area. Have Red throw an apple at 
the
bell to the left of the screen opening the gate north of the screen to 
another
area.

Keep walking strait, and the Magic Mirror will talk to you saying to take 
care
of the mousetraps before someone gets hurt, or worse...dies. Have little Red
throw an apple at both, and then continue on strait. On your way strait you
will come across more forest hunters. Kill them easily with either Shrek, or
Donkey. After killing the hunters, one of the blind mice will crawl through a
hole in the gate. After this occurs, the gate swings open allowing you to 
pass.

In this next area go strait across the bridge with Donkey, go to the tree to
the tree north of you, and use your burro blast creating a bridge that 
everyone
can cross.

In the next area, use Shrek to press the B button on the lever. After this is
done, the ramp will swing down creating a path. Cross it, and you will be
ambushed yet again by hunters. Kill them all, and you will gain a snapshot.

Continue on, and you will come to a pole with a bell on top of it. Use red to
knock the bell, opening the gate. Go through the gate, and pull the lever
opening yet another gate. Go through this one, but hurry up and have red 
press
the X button, to destroy the trap. Continue on, and you will come across the
tree standing in your way. Use Donkey's burro blast to knock it down creating 
a
bridge to cross on. In the next little area, use Donkey's burro blast yet 
again
and knock down the tree creating a bridge. Cross it, and you will end up on a
little raised area of land. As you sep onto the raised area of land, a
checkpoint is documented.

From this little area, you are going to want to take a right following the
cheese. Here, you will here Fiona say "It' is Fiona time. There is an 
hourglass
there, so get it, and use it to kill all of the bats around the hourglass.
Continue on after, and you will come to a house, you will hear a conversation
going on that says, "You do not have to go back to your castle but you cannot
stay here." Kill this man quickly, and a good job will appear. After you kill
him, a horde of woodsmen will attack you kill all of them, but watch out. 
They
are tough.

After defeating everything that comes to you, take a left to where you came 
in.
Here will be a hole, big enough for one of the blind mice to climb through,
ringing the three bells, and opening the gate, after this happens, a 
snapshot,
and a checkpoint will be obtained.

Before going over that bridge, go down to the right side of it, and use 
Fiona's
slow time to kill all of the bats down under the bridge. If you do not get 
them
all, do not worry about it. A few bats will not kill. After you kill all or
most of the bats go forward. Here are some bouncy springs that you can hop on
to get coins, and an hourglass. Go up the next bridge. The sword swinger is
here, and he is tough. Try to kill him with donkey, but watch out don't get 
hit
by the sword! (Hint: Use Fiona's slow time to try and hit the swordsmen 
before
he swings.)

After you beat the swordsmen, got down the rest of the bridge. A wee man will

ask you to pay 100 pieces of gold to pass. You must pay him, or he will not 
let
you pass. To your right, is your first upgrade shop. He has plus three hit
points, and two other items. I bought the three hit point upgrade. Go on, and
have red riding hood destroy the traps before anyone else kills himself or
herself. Go on, and kill all of the rats. The do as the magic mirror says, 
and
use donkey to Burro Blast The grave to make a bridge, now continue on, but
watch out more mousetraps ahead. Have red dispose of them. Continue on, using
Donkeys Burro Blast to close the tomb's disposing of the holes, and creating 
a
bridge. Continue on just a little bit further, and you will get a snapshot, 
and
a checkpoint.

Go on more further, and the mound guarding your way will break/fall, go down
the hill, and you will be faced with more woodsmen with those little pointy
things. Use mainly Shrek to kill all of them. After killing them, collect all
of the gold coins, and bounce on the springy platform. Get the gold coins, 
and
move to the left to the platform open up the chest, and many things will
explode from it.

Go on, but watch out! The three blind mice want to go up the bridge, but 
there
are mousetraps on it. So have Little Red Riding Hood, and the gang go 
alongside
the bridge bringing down all mousetraps with Little Red's throwing ability.
When they continue on, shoot down the log in front of the gang to continue, 
and
here a checkpoint is documented.

When you move on, you will come to the Gingerbread Man's house. Keep going 
on.
Here I bet you your saying to yourself "How do I get by!!" etc. Well here you
see where the three blind mice are? Move them out of the way. (Using either
force or no force.) And you will see a horseshoe carved into the gate. Use
Donkey's Burrow Blast on that exact spot, and the gate will open. After this 
is
done another snapshot is obtained.

Here, come up the path to finally see your destination, the witch's house. 
Here
Fiona will get out of the carriage and say Shrek come help me. Shrek says ok,
but then the big dragon comes into view. Donkey, and dragon have had 
something
going on sense the first movie. Donkey will say oh my fire breathing beady. 
Now
you must be thinking Yes the Spooky Forest is done! But not yet. Then all of
those rude witches fly down, and say that your wife is ours to Shrek, they 
take
her away.

But all hope is not lost. Donkey says that he can save Fiona, and you know 
what
that means her comes some Hero Time!

But before you start, let me warn you it is very challenging. About 4 times
harder than Fiona's. In this hero time you must ride on dragon, using the 
Left
Thumb Stick up button to go up, and Left Thumb Stick down to go down. This 
hero
time is about a 2 and a half-minute ride, where you must avoid different
objects such as wood stacks tunnels, and trees. If you get hit by any one of
these you lose. Good Luck.

Remember: Don't get frustrated. It took me 5 times
          Hero Time is fun, and just another fun challenge in the game.
          Do not put the game away just because you cannot beat it. If you 
need
help just email me.

After you beat this very hard Hero Time, you have beaten the Spooky Forest, 
and
may I be the first to say congratulations.

Next up Far, Far, away land.

In the beginning of the chapter, the storyteller explains that a nervous 
Shrek
waited, to meet Fiona's hopefully lovely parents. The King, and Queen of Far,
Far, Away Land. Later, however, King Harold met with the fairy godmother of 
the
land. He made it clear that he wanted Fiona to marry Prince Charming, and 
would
make it happen. Shrek holding on to Fiona's love proved that he loved her 
very
much, and would not let some pompous king tell him no...or yes. Let us see 
how
this one turns out shall we?

(In this section, I may do things in a different order than you sense all you
do is going around doing challenges for Harold.)

You start off, with Shrek, Fiona, Donkey, and Little Red Riding Hood yet 
again.

When you first start, wonder around, breaking things, and collecting coins 
when
you get board of this, or just have broken everything look for a man (King
Harold that has green around him. During your talk with him, he will tell you
that the Friar's Fat boy truck has overturned, and we need someone to round 
up
the chickens. He will give you the option to say or no. Say yes, and here is
your first adventure in Far, Far, away Land.

In this challenge, you must stun the chickens using Shrek. Then you must pick
the chickens up using Shrek's special ability. Ogre Lifting. (Use the Y
button.) Bring them over to where the coupe is at the top of the screen, and
hold the X button to aim where you would like to throw them. (In the coupe.) 
Do
these twelve times with twelve chickens, and you have already earned yourself 
a
checkpoint, and a snapshot.

After you have got your checkpoint, and your brand new snapshot, go around
exploring Far, Far, Away Land. When you are done, go around the city, looking
for the green. When you find it, you should be in front of a big 
building...the
museum. Here is the annoying King Harold again. He claims there is a troll
running about stealing the family jewels. Can you stop him, and collect all 
of
the family jewels. Well you really have no choice so lets get ready to 
rumble.

This challenge is not very easy, but it is not very hard either. You go 
around,
(trying to avoid the troll) collecting jewels. Wherever the troll was the 
time
before is where the most jewels are. Go around for maybe 5 minutes, 
collecting
196 jewels before the troll hits you, or one of your party members. After you
"win" this challenge, you collect another snapshot, and checkpoint. Wow, this
level is going fast!

The next challenge I did was the hero Time. Well there is so good news for
you...this is the easiest Hero Time yet! All you have to do is use Shrek, to
ground pound stunning his enemies then Ogre lift them, and throw then into 
the
back of the wagon. Do these eighteen times, and you will have earned another
snapshot, and checkpoint.

The next challenge I did was with the Piper. Go up to the huge courtyard, and
have three characters stand on the 3 coins, opening the gate, then talk to
Harold about the piper, and say yes, that you accept.

This on your list of snapshots is called radical. When you first step in, all
175 rats come out to the courtyard. Use all the characters to kill all of the
little vermin in the first area, the gate will open to a second kill all the
little vermin in that one, (possibly using Fiona's slow time), then one final
gate will open showing the piper kill him in one easy hit. Then yet another
checkpoint and snapshot will be earned. Now we only have three more 
challenges,
and we are out of here. We are flying through this level!

The next challenge after radical is a challenge involving Cinderella. King
Harold says that Cinderella needs to go shopping, and that it's up to the 
gang
to keep her safe. Accept the challenge,from king Harold, and get ready 
because
here we go again.

In this challenge, we have to protect Cinderella from the evil peasants. She
will go from shop to shop looking at new pairs of glass slippers, and you 
have
to keep her health to where she can stay alive. After she has gone to about 
ten
shops, the challenge is over. If you keep her alive, you will obtain a
checkpoint, and another snapshot.


The Final challenge that you MUST beat is the humpty Dumpty's eggshell
challenge; this is located on one of the street corners. In this challenge,
(the hardest one.) you must collect all of Humpty Dumpty's broken eggshells,
while fighting off a mob of peasants.

You do not have to do the 12 magic bean challenge; you can go right up to one
of the many Harold's, and go to the next level. That is what I did. But, if 
you
want to read the other two FAQS for Shrek 2 they will help you with the 
beans.

At the end of Far, Far, Away Land, Harold congratulates Shrek. (Not meaning
it.) And then asks Fiona to show the gang to the castle. She does, and walks
away with the gang. Then the game shows Harold cursing as he runs into the
fairy godmother. She says "Then just for get it", and go to the poison apple,
and hire an Ogre killer. You know where this is going...

Well now you have finished Far, Far, Away Land congratulations to all. 
Success!

In the beginning of this short chapter, the storyteller explains that our 
hero
went back to the castle for a good nights sleep. But was troubled when he 
found
Fiona's childhood diary. He was sad when he found out that Fiona had dreamt
about marrying a handsome prince with nice abs, beautiful hair. (Okay you get
the picture.) After Shrek read through the whole diary, he was s0o sad that 
he
decided to take a walk in the woods, while his friends attempted to cheer him
up.

While Gingerbread Man, Shrek, Donkey, and Little Red Riding Hood were 
walking,
around the woods trying to cheer up Shrek, a cat jumped down from a tree
claming that he was puss in boots, and that you should fear him. (Yes! 
Finally
my favorite character has arrived.)

When there are boss fights, I have scoring rules to tell you how hard each
specific boss is. The scoring system goes like this:

This is an intermediate boss. Puss in Boots will go to one of your characters 
(Shrek, Donkey, Gingerbread Man, and Little Red Riding Hood in that order.) A
circle with a question mark inside of it. In this Boss Fight, all you must do
is basically Fiona's Hero Time all over again. Some different buttons will
appear coming down, and when the specific button is in the question mark
circle, and press the button. This is a long boss fight, but not unbeatable. 
I got it in my second time. There are three different rounds, in the fight 
each with a snapshot at the end. Three rounds equals three snapshots. After 
this fight, the (simple) level Ogre Killer is finished. (This level went by a
little to fast for Me. *Laughs out Loud. *)

In this level you start out with: Puss in Boots, Donkey, Shrek, and 
Gingerbread Man.

At the beginning of this level, the fairy tail book will explain that in more 
attempts to cheer Shrek up, the company made their way to the fairy 
godmother's house. She, and the house were known for their charm, and its 
ability to get in without an appointment. When the company gets there, 
however, the guard at the front gate will say halt! The only appointment 
today is a package from Jack, and Jill's farm. The group huddles together, to 
think of something. Donkey exclaims that he has a plan. He says that they 
could intercept the package getting them inside. Everyone looks a little 
doubtful at this plan until Puss in Boots says :or we could just go to the 
arm and get the package." Everyone in the company agrees with this except for 
one person. Donkey looks infuriated at Puss in Boots. (See the jealousy 
starting to poke in?)  

As the level starts, just continue walking up the path, killing the two 
snails along the way. After this keep walking on, and you will come to a pole 
that you see in the first, and second levels. Pull it pressing the A Button, 
and continue across the newly formed bridge. 

Continue on the path, and soon your already faced with your first challenge 
of the level. (When you continue along your merry way, you will come to a 
stop, you will see a FLYING creature cast a spell on regular pumpkins 
basically telling them to cause mischief. Well not if we can help it! 

All that you have to do in this simple boss fight is fight the pumpkins. 
After killing all the little pumpkins in front of you. (There are about ten 
of them), then make your way to the "Big Mama pumpkin." This oversized 
Halloween decoration looks tough but is pumpkin pie at the heart. About five 
punches from Shrek should do away with the pumpkins, earning you a 
checkpoint, and another snapshot. 

Continue on to the north of your screen, into the next area. Do not give up 
if you do not know what to do. This was tricky for me to. Go over to the 
Magic Mirror. He will not tell you what to do but he will give you a very 
good hint, and that is "Now who here is good at lifting things?" Immediately 
you should think of Shrek. So go over to the gear you see a green glow 
around, and Ogre Lift it (With Shrek) Walk over to where the gears, and the 
huge piles of logs are. Press the B button over here when it appears, and put 
the gear in the bigger gears things. (I don't know what to call them.) The 
big gears will turn, unlocking it. The big piles of wood will be shattered 
allowing for you to continue on.   

Go onto the next area, and go to your right. (East Side.) Have Puss in Boots 
use his special ability to tightrope across the rope. In here get him to pull 
the pole from levels one and two, creating a bridge. Now use Donkey to Burrow 
Blast the gate. Look out for the spinning barrel. You can dodge it, or you 
can fight it to make it go back to a regular barrel. Have Shrek Ogre lift the 
small gear, into the area in the beginning of the paragraph. Have him putt 
the gear in the bigger gear thing creating a way to the next area. 

In here talk to William Mugruff to the left of your screen. Take him across 
the bridge with Puss in Boots, earning you a checkpoint, and another 
snapshot. Continue on winding through the paths, and keep going with no 
trouble at all when you come to two moving blades, go when they are both not 
in the way with Shrek. On the other side, Press the B button on the other 
side against the pole from levels one and two, and have the rest of your 
party cross to fight the peasants. After you fight the peasants move onto the 
next area.

You may not necessarily find these beans in this order, but this was how
and when I found them.


CHAPTER 1
1)  On the high platform near Shrek's house.
2)  Between 2 platforms near the pond.
3)  Above the crate's position on the floor in the area before Robin Hood's
    ambush.
4)  Near the ramp leading up to Robin Hood's ambush.
5)  In the area to the left of Robin Hood's ambush.
6)  In the fairies area, in the bottom left hand corner.
7)  After the area with the fairies.
8)  In the area immediately after the piranhas and shark appear.
9)  Behind the gate after the 1st see-saw on the left.
10) In the crook in the tree after the 1st see-saw on the right.
11) Smash the crates on the left after the crocodiles.
12) On the lowered platform to the 7th dwarf.


CHAPTER 2
1)  Head away from the gate down screen towards the camera.
2)  Under the log after you open the gate.
3)  Between the 2 platforms on the left after the first 2 mousetraps.
4)  Near the 1st large concrete bridge on a small platform with the bats.
5)  Behind the gate containing the rats, near the switch.
6)  Behind the carriage after the ambush near the inn.
7)  Near large bridge on a small platform just before the leprechaun.
8)  In the area near the leprechaun.
9)  Just after the 1st 2 stone tombs.
10) Just after the pest cemetery.
11) In the unbroken tombs - break them with Donkey's Burro Blast.
12) In a chest on a high platform - use the springy platform to get to it.


CHAPTER 3
1)  To the right of the square towards the Chicken Special sign above a
    springy platform near the King.
2)  In the courtyard up the stairs by the fountain.
3)  In the courtyard up the stairs by the fountain.
4)  Above a golden carriage on the corner near the fountains.
5)  Above a golden carriage near the museum and Troll challenge.
6)  Above springy platform on the road on the right after the weapon shop.
7)  On a ledge above a springy platform in the Thugs challenge.
8)  Above a golden carriage in the Thugs challenge.
9)  Above a golden carriage near the Cinderella challenge.
10) Above a golden carriage in the Humpty challenge.
11) Near the Thugs challenge - make the horse and carriage stop so you can
    climb up and get it. Look for the shadow on the floor.
12) Above springy platform near the Pied Piper and Rats Challenge.


CHAPTER 4

There are no beans in this level.


CHAPTER 5
1)  After the pumpkins through the gate.
2)  Along a rope between 2 tree stumps, left of Jack and Jill's sign.
3)  Along a rope between 2 tree stumps after little pumpkins at the first
    checkpoint.
4)  Along a rope between 2 tree stumps after frog potion behind the gate.
5)  After the first large pumpkin on the William Gruff escort.
6)  In William Gruff's garden.
7)  After jumping across the wood saws after William Gruff's garden.
8)  Up some logs after you move the stack of logs after the bridge on the
    right hand side.
9)  Up some logs after you move the stack of logs after the bridge on the
    right hand side.
10) Up some logs after you move the stack of logs after the bridge on the
    left hand side.
11) On the rope after the 2nd frog potion.
12) On the left hand side from the bridge where the pumpkins shoot fire at
    you - use Gingerbread man or Puss In Boots to jump over there.


CHAPTER 6
1)  On the left hand side of the start screen at the bottom.
2)  On the platform behind the 2nd set of giant carrots.
3)  In the 2nd patch of daisies in the Gingerbread man Hero Time challenge
    after the pumpkins.
4)  In the last patch of daisies in the Gingerbread man Hero Time
    challenge.
5)  In an enclosed area near the Needle in a Haystack challenge.
6)  Along a vine on the way to the chicken coop across the pond.
7)  On the 4 vines together near the bees and eggs challenge.
8)  On the 4 vines together near the bees and eggs challenge.
9)  In the sunflower patch near the cornfield challenge on the right.
10) In the sunflower patch near the cornfield challenge on the left.
11) Above a springy platform on the way to the cornfield.
12) In the sunflower patch near the cornfield challenge gate.


CHAPTER 7
1)  In the main room near the door after hitting the bear.
2)  In the main room behind the counter.
3)  In the display case when the guards attack in the 2nd room.
4)  In the display case when the guards attack in the 2nd room.
5)  In the doorway after the security beams.
6)  In the display case in the room before the 2nd set of beams.
7)  In the display case in the room before the 2nd set of beams.
8)  Near where Shrek uses the cog for Lil' Red's Hero Time.
9)  High up in the potions room.
10) In the room with the large vat of potion in near the door.
11) In the room after Prince Charming.
12) Near the TNT in the room after Prince Charming (through the door).


CHAPTER 8
1)  Above a platform in the 1st area.
2)  Near the 1st big ball on a suspended cage.
3)  Near the 1st gate the big ball smashes - have to jump off the side.
4)  Behind the wall Wolf needs to blow down near the 2nd prisoner.
5)  Where the 2nd big ball rolls down from and kills the guard near the 3rd
prisoner.
6)  Fall off through the gap in wall near the cage made into a bridge.
7)  Behind a spider's nest in a little alcove.
8)  Behind the wall Wolf needs to blow down to the left of the 5th prisoner.
9)  Next to Larry the Leprechaun's shop.
10) On a ledge up the suspended cages near the troll.
11) After the 2 floor switches before you climb up cage and platforms,
   there's some platforms to the left.
12) Above the cages you have made into steps in the last room.



CHAPTER 9
1)  In the 2nd room where you kill the spiders between 2 low platforms.
2)  Across the bridge on the left in the 3rd room where you release Tiny Tot.
3)  In the 4th room on the left hand side - it's out of sight.
4)  Up the stairs you made come out of the water, near the blue dwarf statue.
5)  Under the switch in the same room the other side of the blue statue.
6)  Near the switch in the room with the glass/ice crystals.
7)  Near the cage containing Short Fuse in the crystal room.
8)  On a rope to the left after releasing Short Fuse.
9)  On the right hand side of the spiders room after the 1st stone Warrior.
10) Near the giant spider on the small stairs on the left.
11) On the next platform down after releasing Little Bird.
12) Top left corner of the last room with the bronze Stone Warrior.


CHAPTER 10
1)  Near Friar Fat Boys Van.
2)  In the doorway of Friar's.
3)  In the courtyard near the fountains.
4)  In the 2nd area in the far left corner after you kill the knights.
5)  In the 2nd area near the fire trucks and beams.
6)  In the 2nd area at the top of the ropes.
7)  On the 2nd rooftop - slide down to the fire.
8)  On the last rooftop with the gold weather vane.
9)  After the giant Gingerbread Man puts you down, where the leprechaun was.
10) After giant Gingerbread Man puts you down, near the mirror.
11) Behind the 1st FFAPD truck - get the giant Gingerbread Man to blow it up.
12) Behind the last FFAPD truck - get the giant Gingerbread Man to blow it
    up.


CHAPTER 11
There are no magic beans in the level.

