World 1

Stage 1-1
Ah, good old 1-1. Let's go. Right at the beginning there's a few question blocks, one of which has your first mushroom, so nab it and get going. There are a few pipes to jump over. You can press down on the third one to reach a cache of coins and shortcut to the exit. This is the best route for speed runs, but the rest of us will probably want to stay above ground and claim some goodies. Just to the right of this pipe is a hidden block with an extra life. Hit it from below.

Just over the gap, you can spot another question block. Let the goombas drop down and hit it from below to claim your mushroom/flower. Across the gap, there's a question block with a coin. The regular block below it is a coin block, so hit it until it's spent.

Just ahead, there is a small platform of two blocks, and four question blocks in a pyramid arrangement. The right block on the small platform is actually a star, and the top question block of the pyramid is a power up. You'll jump over a couple hills after this, and then come to a large hill right before the flag. To hit the top of the flagpole, hole the run button down at the bottom, run, jump and hit the left edge of the fourth block, bounce to the top, run a bit on the top and then jump. 5000 points.

Stage 1-2
The first question block is a power-up, and the rest are coins. Hop over the columns and when you see the gap with a goomba in it, drop down on his head and then hit the block (it's a coin block) until it runs out.

Just beyond is the first of several entry points to the ceiling. You can bash out a couple of the roof blocks, and then get a running start to jump up onto the ceiling. This will eventually take you to the warp room, essential for speed runs. If you want to take your time and enjoy the full game, just take the low road. If you hit the top brick of the right part of the platform, there's a star.

Slide under the low pass, and then bash out all bricks on the right side of the structure beyond. Just before the gap, hit the coin block pictured on the left. Now, leap over the Pirannah plants, and you'll come to some platforms moving up and down. Decision time. This is the easiest and last opportunity you'll have to reach the ceiling and run right to the warp room. Stay the course and take the pipe up to reach the end of the level. Hit the flag, same as level 1.

Stage 1-3
This is the first "mountain" level. There aren't as many secrets here in the beginning. Make your way past the enemies, grabbing coins as you see them. There's a moving platform you can hop on to reach some coins, and a question block with a power up below.

Up ahead, you'll come to a gap with a flying red koopa. Jump on his back and try to land on or avoid the goomba. There are some moving platforms that slide back and forth after this. They aren't hard, but be careful.

There's more Koopas up ahead, but the main thing you should focus on is landing your flag jump. There's a platform moving back and forth near the end of the stage. Get a running start on the platform, and from here you can hit the highest point on the hill and then jump to the flagpole.

Stage 1-4
This is your first castle. It's basically just a gauntlet of deadly obstacles. There's a question block with a power up at the bottom, and then a series of rotating fire whips. You can dash straight through the first three, but after that it gets tricky if you're going for speed. If you didn't take the warp, odds are you're not doing a speed run anyway, so take it easy and go past them one at a time.

When you first see Bowser's flames coming across, you'll drop down into a lowered area. There are six hidden blocks here, three low and three high. Go from left to right (low, high, low high) to reveal them. When you reach Bowser, you can shoot him if you have Flower Power, making this very easy. Otherwise, jump on the platform and grab the axe behind him.

You win! Oh wait, some nonsense about another castle...



World 2

Stage 2-1
Right at the start of the level there's a power up hidden in the middle of the three blocks. Past a few Koopas and a piranha plant there are 10 question blocks. The bottom left one has a power up.

Before the next piranha plant, there's a star hidden in the left block of the upper platform. Just past this, there's an area with question blocks below, and a regular platform above. If you hit the middle block of the upper platform, you can take a vine to reach the clouds for lots of coins and a shortcut to the end. This walkthrough assumes the long way, so we'll continue the lower path.

The next piranha plant has a pipe that leads down to a coin basement. Take it, you won't miss anything. When you come back up there will be three pipes to your right and a platform over them. The leftmost block is a power up.

Past the gap there's a coin block and a from here, you'll have plenty of koopas to mind, but you're not far from the flag. At the end there's a big spring to get you over the wall. Hitting the top of the pole is as simple as bouncing up and running over.

Stage 2-2
This level is an underwater stage. It's a nice leisurely swim under the ocean without any real tricks or secrets. It's a good chance to just get used to the underwater controls if you happen to be the last person on earth playing this for the first time. Mind the Bloopers and watch out for the areas where the ground is missing – they can suck you down.

Eventually Cheeps start to fill up the screen, and you'll have to be a bit more nimble. This is still pretty easy if you have flower power, but if you don't you'll have to be careful. Once you make it to the end, you'll have a generic flag jump to finish.

Stage 2-3
The first bridge stage. This is another linear gauntlet, with random flying cheep-cheeps. The cheeps have a pretty slow trajectory, so if you're paying attention you won't have to worry about them on the way down. They can catch you off guard on the way up, however, so it helps to jump a lot.

About halfway through the stage, you'll reach the one and only power up in the stage. There's a big jump after that, and that's about it for the peril. The flag jump is another generic one.

Stage 2-4
Castle 2 is a short one. Mind the fireballs on either side of the question block island, and collect the power-up. Ahead, there's a high road and a low road. Take the bottom route, and mind the fire whips. You can run past this pretty quickly with the right timing.

There are some small elevator platforms with another fire bar on the other side. This takes some precision, so don't get greedy. There are six coins beyond here and you should see Bowser's flames headed your way.

Hop the two lava pits and dodge the fire. When you get to Bowser's lair, knock out a brick or two from the row above and do a running jump to get up there. He can't attack you there, so scoot over to the moving platform, and snatch the axe.

Once again you seem to have miscalculated your goal. How does this happen twice in a row?

World 3

Stage 3-1
There are three question blocks to start with. Watch out for the Koopas (jump on top of the blocks if need be). The third one has a power up. Take the second piranha plant pipe down to a coin basement.

In the basement, look for the block in the top row with a power up. You'll come back up near a bridge. There's a hidden block with a 1up, and on the leftmost block of the platform to the right of the bridge, there's a star.

The star helps a lot, because now you can just rush through the Hammer Bros up ahead. There's a spring past here. Jump onto it, but don't use it to do a big jump. Instead, just bounce right and land in between the two platforms. Hit the right block to raise a vine and do a wrap-around jump or bust a block next to it to reach it.

You'll fall back down near the exit. Hit the second block from the left for a coin block. The flag jump is a typical one, but there are some koopas on the stairs, which means an infinite score/life loop. Knock one koopa out of the way so you don't get run over, and then bounce on the left side of another one while jumping from a standing position (i.e. not moving) so you repeatedly bounce off it and kick it into the wall at the same rhythm. You can let him bounce all day and rack up bonus lives.

Stage 3-2
After the initial goombas, kick the first koopa forward and follow it to rack up points. There's a question block with a power up ahead. Shortly thereafter you'll come to an area with a koopa pacing in a small gap. The upper block here has a star. The block right below it is a coin block, which you can safely hit once you're invincible.

You'll cross two small gaps ahead, and if you're quick you can catch a koopa before he falls into the gap after that. If you knock this shell forward and follow it, you'll be able to rack up a 1up combo. The flag jump is just on the other side of that pipe.

Stage 3-3
This is another simple mountain level. Early on you'll have to hop on a couple of moving platforms. The next platform you see after this you should jump on as quickly as possible.

There's a couple of pulley platforms. Jumping on these will lower them, but raise the other platform. Run and jump across and take the high road, over the paratroopa. The next pulley platforms you see are a set up for the flag jump. Get the right one as high as possible and make your leap.

Stage 3-4
Castle 3. I'm pretty sure the princess is really here this time. The first few gaps combine fire whips and fireballs, so observe for a second before making the jumps. If you take a hit, don't worry, there's a power up just ahead.

You'll have to jump through three pairs of high and low fire whips. The first two are easy because they move clockwise, but don't rush into the third one. After this you'll see Bowser's flames a-coming, so mind the random fire while leaping the fireballs coming from the lava pits.


When you get to Bowser, knock out a couple of the gray bricks in the middle to get on the platform and easily reach the axe.

World 4

Stage 4-1
If you took the warp in 1-2 like most lazy folks do, you'll find yourself here. Meet Lakitu. He's a pain. The easiest way to beat the stage is to hold the run button and dash straight through. You can also kill Lakitu at high points, but he'll respawn before long. There's a power up right at the beginning. Having Flower Power really makes things easier because of all the spinies. You'll pass a group of four question blocks (they're just coins, but they're a good way to get high enough to kill Lakitu. Past this, there is a row of four question blocks. In some versions of the game (like the original Duck Hunt combo cart) there is a hidden extra life block over the third block. If you can't find it, don't obsess over it, it isn't in all revisions.

There are a couple of piranha plants past here. If you take the second pipe down you can reach a coin basement. Just above the pipe back up, there's a power up block, but it's hard to hit unless you're small. You can duck-slide under it from the top of the center platform, but it's tricky. Past a few small gaps, you get to the stairs leading up to the flag. It's like all the others, except between the stairs and the flag there's a coin block, which is probably worth sacrificing the big jump for (you can still get a 2000 jump easy).

Stage 4-2
There are some uneven jumps right at the start. Jump clean over the little island rather than trying to land on it. Past this there are three coins in a cavity below. The block right above these has a power up. There's another power up among the many question blocks you'll come to. After this is a platform. You can use it to get up to the ceiling and reach a warp to World 5 if you want, or you can warp even further ahead to Worlds 6, 7 or 8 with the following trick.

Beneath the platform right of the moving platform there are four invisible blocks. You want to hit three of them, but not the fourth (assuming your big; if you're small, you can hit all four). Knock the vine block above, which will take you to a mushroom level leading to the warp pipes.

We'll stick with the long/low road. To the left of the second piranha plant pipe, there's a coin block, and the third pipe leads to a coin basement (which itself has a coin block on the right).

More elevator platforms are up next. You'll come to a very tall pipe after this. It's a good final exit for the warp to World 5. Take the pipe up to hit the jump.

Stage 4-3
These giant mushroom stages are a lot like the hill levels. Lots of chances to fall. When you jump from the platform with the two koopas, make sure to get a running start. There's a power up not far past here in an obvious question block.

The basic idea for this stage is to stay on the high road. Manipulate the pulley platforms to get some good height, but be careful not to overdo it. At the very end of the stage you'll come to a platform that moves up and down. Run from the left side to the right side and time it so you reach the right at the apex of its movement for a perfect flag jump.

Stage 4-4
Hop over the lava pits and take the high road, running right over the one-space gaps and dodging the fire whips.

Up ahead there's a few platforms and the stage will branch into three levels. You want to take the bottom route or it will loop indefinitely. Mind the clockwise-spinning fire whip; it's easy to get caught.


Bowser's finally getting trickier here. There's a fire whip, some fireballs, and no notable secrets. One great big jump is your best bet to get over his head. Or just hit him with fireballs like a cheapskate.

World 5

Stage 5-1
Kick the first koopa and chase the shell. If you time it right you should be able to snag a 1-up. Hop over the two pipes, and kick the paratroopa right to rack up more points. On the platform above you can get a star.


Dash with your invincibility through all the enemies. Around where it wears off, you'll come to two piranha plants, one suspended in mid-air. To the left of this there's a wall four blocks high, and a platform three bricks wide. To the left of the three bricks is a hidden block with a 1up in some revisions of the game (but not all). Go down the suspended one to reach a coin basement. This will take you pretty close to the end of the stage. There's a gap in the stairs before the flag, but it won't change the jump much. If anything it makes it easier.

Stage 5-2
Skip up the stairs and over the Bullet Bill, and hit the spring pad to land on the lower of the two platforms. Hit the right-most block of the top platform for a power-up (pictured, left). Now get ready for a Hammer Brother. Approach carefully, and try waiting above and baiting him over unless you're going for speed. Go down the first pipe you see.

Now you're underwater. There are lots of coins down here, which are far better company than the Hammer Bros you'd have to fight if you took the high road. When you come out, hit the rightmost block of the top platform to snag a star. Run through the beetles and then slide under the two blocks before the gap. One of these is a coin block and the other has a power-up.

Right after you pass two Koopa Paratroopas, there's a lone floating block that contains a power-up. You're almost home. The stairs are split into three segments this time, which can be tricky for speed runs (which you probably wouldn't be doing in World 5), but it's no sweat otherwise.

Stage 5-3
This is another straightforward mountain level. The layout is more or less the same as 1-3, and there are no appreciable secrets, but things are much harder this time because of the random Bullet Bills firing across the stage.

You'll also notice throughout the stage that there are more abundant goombas and koopas, and that the moving platforms are much smaller. None of these things affect the basic strategy, however, and the bullets can actually be helpful in making big jumps. The flag is a bit different too, with a blocky staircase before the jump, so making the big jump from the moving platform isn't needed to get a 5000.


Stage 5-4
Walk all the way up to the ledge, but don't jump. Notice the huge fire whip now. Wait for it to pass before you jump across and claim your power-up. On the other side, take the low road. You'll have to take it slow because of the fire whips.

There is a pair of small moving elevators, and a fire whip on the far side of the jump. Jump to it as it passes through the ground. Bowser's flames let you know you're near. There's another fire whip in the recessed area.

Just beyond the two lava pits, you'll find Bowser waiting once more. Killing him is exactly the same as in World 2. There are some fireballs this time, but since you're going over, it doesn't affect a thing.

World 6

Stage 6-1
This is a more interesting Lakitu stage than the first one. Climb the stairs and dodge the spiny. There's a power up, and from the top of this platform, you can kill Lakitu. The right side of the brick platform below is a coin block.

In the generous revisions of the game, there's yet another hidden block with a 1-up beneath the platforms after the broken staircase, but it's absent from other versions. Hop over the piranha plant.

You'll notice the basic pattern of this level repeating. At the high points try to kill Lakitu, and on the descents mind for bonuses like a power up or a coin block. When you reach an unusually high column, you know it's time for a flag jump.

Stage 6-2
Go down the first piranha plant pipe. It'll take you to a coin basement and bring you back up not much further along. Just beyond here you'll come to a Buzzy Beetle. There are two bricks above it. Hit the right one for a power-up.

Go down the pipe immediately right of this to reach an underwater area. Same as some of the other ones, avoid getting pulled down and grab those coins. When you re-emerge, hop up to the top platform and run right. Go past the two small pipes and hit the block pictured on the right to get a star.


From here you can use your invincibility to bolt through the piranha plants and other enemies. There's not much else of interest before the end. Mind the piranha plant and the Koopa Paratroopa on the stairs before you make the leap.

Stage 6-3
Proving just how ahead of its time Super Mario was, stage 6-3 uses the color palette of Killzone 2. This is a real platforming gauntlet with lots of moving platforms and such. It's a very skill-based stage. There's a power up block over one of the moving platforms, but if it's a mushroom and not a flower, grabbing it can be dangerous so time when you hit it well.

About halfway through the stage, Bullet Bills will show up. Some of the same gags repeat at this point. There's a series of falling platforms near the end that you need to jump from quickly, but there's one solid ledge before the flag, which is enough for you to get momentum if you need it.

Stage 6-4
You know the deal by now. This is another mostly recycled layout with more hazards, so we'll try not to get into excruciating detail. When you get to the first island, get the power up and wait on top of the block if you need to before crossing. Most of the rest of this stage is a gauntlet of counterclockwise fire whips. Take it slow, you can't hop through these quickly.

When you reach the recessed area, you can reveal the six hidden blocks from left to right again, which will help a little in the boss fight. This time Bowser will throw hammers, which makes the timing tricky. Hopefully you made it here with flower power, but if not, wait for a break and try to land the moving platform.

World 7

Stage 7-1
Over the second bullet cannon, there's a block with a power up. After this there are four coin blocks. The underside is flanked by cannons, so be careful.

There's another set of cannons up ahead. This time the second block from the left is a coin block. The hammer bros are just past a piranha plant. This is a great vantage point to take them out with flower power, but if you don't have it you'll have to wait for a break. There's another plant afterwards, and this pipe takes you to a coin basement.

You'll come out just in time to meet another pair of Hammer Bros. Try to get underneath them. Just past this there's a spring board. Use it to hit the high block directly above it for a power-up. The stairs to the flag are just to the right. There's a beetle on this stage, which you can once again use to do the 1up loop trick.

Stage 7-2
Nintendo is lazy. This stage is virtually the same as 2-2, with denser enemy placement. Just avoid the fishies and be careful when you pass over the suction pits.

Stage 7-3
Now you know why everyone uses warp pipes. This is a clone of stage 2-3. There are more cheep-cheeps now, and also some koopas added to the mix. The paraptroopas in particular can make the timing a little more complicated.

The only power-up in the level comes halfway through. After that you'll have to navigate some little platforms, and then it's a short rush to the finish line.

Stage 7-4
At the beginning there are a couple falling platforms and a bouncing fireball. It's nothing tough, but you can get caught by surprise. The road forks ahead. This is another maze castle that will loop if you take the wrong way. You want the bottom route first.

At the three-way split, take the middle route, and then go high when this platform ends.

Run across the platform with the fire whip (you can run right over the gaps without jumping). Drop down, and take the middle path (it's ok if you fall off it at the gaps). When these platforms end, take the high road.

Past a couple small, non-lethal gaps and the flames start coming. You're going to have to rough this fight with Bowser. There is one fireball, and he throws hammers like a madman. Hopefully since there wasn't much danger in the stage you can suffer a hit and get to the other side even if your timing stinks.


World 8

Stage 8-1
Knock the beetle forward, through the goombas. Hop over the piranha plant and run straight across the gaps. You'll come to two piranha plants with a beetle between them. In the easy versions there is a hidden block with a 1up between these two pipes.

Go over two more pipes and when you see one left of three goombas, go down it to reach a coin basement. When you come back up, you'll have to kill three koopas and three goombas, and then you'll come to a walled off area with a flying koopa and a platform overhead. In the dead center of this area, hit an invisible block, stand on it, and then hit the coin block right above it.

Run over the small gaps after this (jumping could be dangerous). There's a large brick platform after this. The third block from the left has a star. Grab it and rush through the enemies up ahead. Slow down a bit when you come to the piranha plant stairs. If your invincibility is wearing off, knock the Buzzy Beetle forward and chase it.

Over the stairs, you'll face a couple semi-difficult jumps that you should take with a running start. You'll know you're getting near the end when you see a couple piranha plants. The broken stairs are just after.

Stage 8-2
It's Lakitu's final appearance in the game. You can hop up the stairs (the break helps to stop spines from crawling all the way down, but the real menace is the green koopa paratroopa. You can bait him down to the bottom if you're not feeling confident in your timing abilities. From the top of the stairs you can eliminate Lakitu for good. There are four coin blocks below.

You'll come to a spring pad beneath a long platform. Use it to hit the block right above it. An extra life will come out. Make sure you catch it. This life will be here every time, even if you die. Beyond a couple bullet cannons, you can see a pair of brick blocks in the air. The right one contains a power-up.

After two more cannons, there's a platform with a cannon on it. A couple Buzzy Beetles are marching below. There's a coin block on the right side of the platform, but the hazards probably out way the worth. After a couple pipes, there's a tricky jump. Stand on the left side of the left block, before the gap. Run, so you skip over the small gap, and then make the jump with enough momentum to clear the large gap.

The next piranha plant has a pipe to take you to a coin basement. When you come back up, you'll be nearly home. Go over the small steps and mind the flying koopa and the stairs are all yours.

Stage 8-3
After a couple pipes, you'll come to the first set of Hammer Bros. Just take your time and bait them, since there isn't much room to move. If you hit the second block from the right on the top platform, you'll get a power up, so be careful to leave yourself a base to make this jump.

Past a few more bullet cannons and castle walls, you'll come to another Hammer Bros. fight exactly like the last one. Handle it the same way, but this time the power up is second from the left in the top row.

Now you've got a long rush for the end. There are more Hammer Bros still, and you might be running low on time! This area is easy enough with flower power, but can be stressful without it since you won't be able to dash. The staircase is more perilous in this level, too.

Stage 8-4
It's another castle. I don't know why we bother with these things, the princess is never really here. Oh well, here we go again. This one is a pipe maze. Take the wrong pipes and you'll end up back near the start, so pay attention. Go over the lava pit, over the first two piranha plants, and take the moving platform across the lava pit. The very next pipe is the one to go down.

When you emerge, you'll be able to see some Buzzy Beetles off to the right. Keep trucking right, past the paratroopas until you come to a pipe floating in the air. There's an invisible block that you can reveal two spaces left of it, which will help you to jump up to the floating pipe. Take it down to reach the next area.

Now you're in an area where cheep-cheeps will suddenly appear from nowhere. Be alert. Go right, past the lava pit, and go down the first pipe on the other side.

One last swim before the boss should do you good. We soon learn that fire whips are curiously water resistant. There are a few odd Bloopers around, but this is mostly a straight gauntlet of fire whips. You'll pass about five of them before you get to the exit pipe.

There's one last Hammer Brother guarding a lava pit on yonder side of the pipe. Fireball him, or get near him and wait for a break in his throwing to bop him. On the other side of the lava bit is the final Bowser. There's not tricks here and he's throwing hammers like a mad man. Stay inside the arc of his hammers, but don't get so close that you can't dodge his fire. Hop over his head to the axe to knock him down.

Now go talk to stupid Toad aga--- Wait, is that the princess?!

I guess you win.

