The Last of Us
http://www.ign.com/wikis/the-last-of-us/Walkthrough

Prologue
You start off The Last of Us with a nice, long cutscene. Once Sarah wakes up, you are now in control of the game. Check out the room if you want, then head out into the hallway. On the dresser to her left is a birthday card for Joel she can interact with.

 
The first door you see is the bathroom, in which a newspaper can be found. Going further down the hallway, you get to Joel's room.

 
The TV is on, and you can get a glimpse of some grim news being reported as well as seeing an explosion outside. Time to head back out the door and downstairs.

 
Check out Joel's cell phone ringing on the counter and the note on the fridge, then walk over to the office. You eventually wind up in a car outside. After driving for a bit, you get closer to the city. You eventually get t-boned by another car, and are given control of Joel, so you are now on foot. Kick open the windshield then pick Sarah up. Follow the crowd of people, avoiding the flames, crashes, and explosions. When you get to the movie theater, do not continue forward.

 
Instead, take a left down an alleyway. You get jumped by an infected, so be ready to mash square. Continue forward in the alley until you get to a bar. Time for Uncle Tommy to be a hero. You are now in the front of the bar. Run through the breakage in the wall in front of you, then just keep going. Do not stop. You come up to a soldier. Wow, that was unexpected.


20 Years Later
It has been 20 years since the events of the beginning of the game. After the long cutscene, follow Tess to the checkpoint.

Artifact 1, 2: Boston Q.Z. Map, Military Pamphlet
You will already be in possession of these two artifacts when you start the game.

 
Once you get to the rations line, take a right.

Optional Conversation 1: To the right, you will see a couple by some newspaper stands. Go up to them to initiate an optional conversation.

Keep moving forward to the checkpoint. As Tess says, "so much for the easy route." Heal up with the health kit that you are given, then follow Tess into the building.

 
Walk along the hallway until you reach a room in the back. Press triangle to interact with the Entertainment Center, then pull it to the right. This allows you to access the tunnel. Drop down and continue forward following Tess.


Beyond the Wall
Go over to the workbench to grab your supplies, then boost Tess up over the wooden barrier. Press forward and X simultaneously to get up yourself. Keep heading forward and press up again to get outside.

 
Optional Conversation 2: Once you climb up through the hole, follow Tess to the front of the building and there will be an optional conversation here.

Walk around to the right of the building in front of you, and go behind a car to find a ladder. Pick it up and bring it to the side of the building with a large hole in it. Set it up and climb into the building. There are a few drawers you can interact with in the kitchen, so open them up to find supplies.

 
Firefly Pendant 1: If you search the bedroom, you will also find a Firefly Pendant.

 
Now head downstairs. Keep following Tess until you have to put on your gas mask. Go into the spore cloud and crouch through the crumbled wall in the laundry room. Find the source for the spore infestation, and move past. Pull the beam out of the way to go through the door. On the other side you see a dying man. You can choose not to put him out of his misery, but don't forget to grab the ammo by his legs.

 
Continue through what looks like an office building and crouch through the blocked door. You come up on three Runners. Follow the tutorial to kill the first one. You can then choose how to engage the other two or you can choose to sneak past them.

 
Go all the way back to the kitchen for a granola bar and into the side room for some more ammo. Now head up the stairs.  Take a left before proceeding outside and go through a closed door. You will find another granola bar

Artifact 3: Note to Brother
In the same closed room as above, you will find this artifact on the table.

Then, follow Tess outside.

 
Follow her around and up to the second floor. Looks like the plank fell down, so go drop down here and grab the plank. Bring it over for Tess to yank up, then walk over to the hole in the wall and crawl through it. Climb back up and cross the plank. Head outside, Drop down from the fire escape, and continue to follow Tess.

Firefly Pendant 2: When she reaches a door, stop and shoot the pendant off the branch of the tree there. Grab it, and head inside.

The Slums
Grab the ammo on the table as Tess bribes a little boy to be a scout. The coast is clear, so go out the door and into the Quarantine Zone. Move through the area until you get off a bus and into a clearing.

 
There are two Artifacts here to be picked up.  

Artifact 4: Drafting Notice
After exiting the bus, it will be on the ground near the tables and red barrel to the left.

Artifact 5: Wanted Poster 
On the far wall, near the people talking by the fence.

   
Now follow Tess down the alley to the right. Bribe the guard then continue forward. You come up on three thugs. Tess doesn't want to bother with these tough guys, so after she kills one, help her kill the other two.

 
Now move forward and boost Tess over the wall. Continue forward and find the hole in the fence to drop down through. Use stealth to take out the two thugs who show up here. Get close to the windows of the building to hear the guards and to get them to move.

 
Once they are in a new position, sneak in and take them out. One of them has an Artifact on his body, and the other has ammo, so go grab both.

Artifact 6: Warehouse Key 
The thug you take out will have dropped this key, you need it to progress so you can't miss this one.

 
Now continue forward through the door in this building. Taking cover behind a group of sand bags, throw a bottle to cause a distraction. Go out and kill the men outside in whatever way you wish. Take the stairs up and go inside the warehouse. Find the Shiv on the table and a Medkit in if you want them.

 
Move around the room and kill everyone else. Once done, move down the stairs to the bottom floor and over to a huge garage door. This takes you out to a dock area with a decent amount of Robert's thugs and Robert himself!

Once the thugs have stopped moving, advance down the far left side, past the shipping containers. Wait inside one down at the far end, a thug walks towards you and turns his back, take him out. Return back to where you started. Move towards the first visible thug, but keep track of the guy walking round, he can catch you. Once the moving thug walks past, take out the stationary one, then advance towards the walking thug, and take him out. Take cover on the forklift, wait for the next walking thug to turn his back, dispatch of him. Moving forward, stealth take out the next guy with his back to you. Now, wait for a second, there is a hidden last guy here. If you have a bottle or a brick, throw it against the wall to your left, then take him out.

There are two shivs in this area. One is on top of a blue barrel just to the left of the Shipping Manifest. The other is on the far side (still outside the warehouse), on top of a white crate that's next to a yellow cargo container.

Artifact 7: Shipping Manifest
To the right of where you start when you jumped down, it should be near a blue bin by a railing near the water.

Artifact 8: Docks Notes
If you enter the warehouse from right hand side, there's a blue dumpster forward and to the right, up against the inner railing. The Docks Notes artifact is to the right of the dumpster.

 
After dispatching of everyone, go to the back to find an office door that is closed. Get Tess and both of you go all out on the door. Robert runs, so chase after him! If you don't go fast enough, you will have to restart. Watch the cutscene now.

The Cargo
Well aren't we all in a bit of a pickle now? Go over to the camp and grab all the supplies on the table. Go up the stairs now, following the Firefly.

 
Keep following up the ladder to the roof of the building, then down the roof of the building next to you. Drop into the window then grab all the supplies on the folding table.

 
Now go help open up the blue door. Advance forward until it's time to be sneaky. Move along the boxes until you get to a staircase on the left. Go up there, then sneak through the building to take out a guard while Marlene takes one out herself.

   
Now continue through the building to see more guards outside. After taking out all the guards up here, go on the bridge where Marlene looks at three dead bodies. Talk to her and then find the stairs on the far side and go down them. Go into the door now. Follow Marlene now through the building and into another door.

 
This is where you first meet Ellie.

Firefly Pendant 3: Directly ahead of you now is a corpse by a Firefly Pendant.


Grab that, then head down the stairs towards the street. The gate is locked, so find the stairs that lead underground. Go through the small tunnel and back out. Go along the fence until you find a gate to go through.

 
You are now in a clearing and need to get up to a second story fire escape. Next to you is a garage with a dumpster in it. Go over to the dumpster and push it so it is under the stairs. Climb all the way up to the fire escape. Walk through the building in the only path that is open. You eventually come up on a door that can be opened, so go right on in. You get treated to a nice long cutscene.


Outside
Tess is back now, so time to head out.

Optional Conversation 3: Talk to Tess by the window.

Artifact 9: Tess' List
After talking to Tess, go back into the room that Joel was sleeping in. On the table by the couch, you can find it.
Now follow Tess through the hole in the wall behind the bookshelf.

 
Power up the generator by pressing Triangle at the right time, then take the lift down.

Artifact 10: Patrol Routes Map
Once you go down, you will find this to the right on the ground.

Go through the glowing-red hole in the wall.

   
Continue forward up the ladder, then sneak outside. Advance forward into the truck with the lobster on it. Go through the truck and get ambushed. Well, LOTS of interesting things happen in this cutscene.

 
After all the excitement of that cutscene ends, crouch under the tanker to go forward. Sneaky time! Follow Tess and avoid the spotlights.

 
You get to a section where you have to run into a sewer drain, so follow Tess right in. From the sewer pipe, keep going to find a few more soldiers looking for you. Go off to the left to hide behind a building, then wrap yourself around the far side of the building.

 
Avoid the man up on the road here, and duck into another sewer pipe. Keep going forward until you can drop down into some water. From here, move up the rubble hill straight ahead.

 
More guards show up who will shoot at you, so duck behind the wall to the left of the guard. Sneak forward into the house and head upstairs. Drop down from here into the next building. Go forward to find a big garage door that you can yank open. Before opening go through the window on the right and collect the supplies in the desk.

 
More stealth time! Go from behind the cop car to the tank to the building. Once in the building, hide as far as you can away to the right, then throw a brick back by the police car to distract the guards.

 
Move forward now, still aware of where the guards are, through the next building, through a truck, and eventually you drop down into a big hole in the middle of the street. Crawl through a sewer pipe down here right next to a makeshift flag.

 
You end up in a basement. Go up the stairs to find another small hole in the wall to crawl through. You hear that the guards are leaving so stay hidden for a few seconds as they clear out. Now cross the room. There is a big open doorway on the other side of the room, so go in here to grab supplies. Some may be hidden in the lockers in the room, so don't forget to check there as well.

 
Now go back out the doorway and across the hall to another open pathway. Make your way through the pipe and the waist-deep water, then pop out through the gate on the other side of the room.

Downtown
After the dramatic cutscene, follow Tess out of the ditch towards downtown. If you go to left underneath the broken bridge you will find an opening and there will be some supplements for you. 

Artifact 11: Evacuation Leaflet
At the top of the broken bridge there is a street and by the traffic light on the ground lies this artifact.
Keep going past the big buildings to hear a spooky, ominous sound. Ignore it for now, and head up the ramp of rubble.

 
Well, no more going forward, so let's go off to the right. Once through the wrecked building, keep going forward to find a building with an opened door.

Firefly Pendant 4: If you head towards the small park area before entering the building in one of the trees there is a Firefly Pendant, there is a bottle and a brick right by tree, save ammo by knocking it down with one of these.

Go forward through the door then through another door to get some supplies.

Optional Conversation 4: Just past the first open door in the wrecked building will be a dead soldier by the other door. There is an optional conversation to be had here about it.

 
Through the door before the stairs there are screws on the table to the right.

Now head up the stairs. 

Artifact 12: Field Ops Log
You will see a dead guard with this artifact lying next to him, so grab that then continue upstairs
If you go to the top (level 6) then you can obtain some additional supplies.

 
Head through the door at Level 5, and you will spot a Clicker. Sneak past it to get through the next door, grab the pills on a bookshelf, and the blade from drawer, and duck under the filing cabinet, vault over the desk. Before go through the door into the next room grab the blade and binding out of work cubical. Be Ready it's time to get assaulted. After the attacker is taken care of, go across the hall for lots of supplies.

 
Move through to the next room and find a door you need a shiv to open.This will break your shiv, but there are lots of goodies behind the door. Once the room is all nice and looted, head back out into the hallway.

If you move into the kitchen there's some wrap and alcohol to be found in the cabinets.

 
Go down to the end of the hallway and take a left into the door that is open here. Lift Tess up to continue moving forward. You hear a Clicker and have a very nervous interaction with one. Sneak around with Tess to get to the wooden barrier. Climb on it, then drop down on the other side. Hop the stair railing and pull out the cabinet so everyone can drop down. If you kill the clicker you will find supplies in the bathroom that is off to the left. As well as a health pickups in the room you climbed up to and where the clicker ends up.

 
Go out the window and make your way around the window washing carts and the building ledges to find a smashed window to get back inside. Go down the stairs now and you hear some not-so-happy sounds. Grab the Revolver by the body, then go into the room to the right. You can find a wooden 1x1.  Head over to a large drop. Drop down to find a metal pipe.

The Last of Us Walkthrough Part 08 - Outskirts: Downtown pt 2
The Last of Us Walkthrough Part 08 - Outskirts: Downtown pt 2
12:19
Grab it and keep moving forward to see a guard.  Including the guard, there are four infected plus a clicker in this section. Take the guard in front of you out from behind with a stealth attack. Take the ammo he usually drops, then go back to where the metal pipe was.  Past that on the left is a back room.  Sneak in there when it's clear and and hide behind the desks in the middle of the room.  After a bit, the one runner will come back around (he does slow laps) and you should be able to stealth kill him without alerting the others.  Next go for a stealth kill of the lone infected who stays in the room across the hall on the left.  Finally, lure the last infected soldier away from the clicker with a bottle or brick for the last steath kill.  The clicker standing against the wall is facing outwards so you can't sneak up on him.  Line up a headshot with your pistol. Take the shot to take a chunk out of him and finish him with a few more shots before he can come kill you.  That should clear the room.

ALSO NOTE, there are two cans and a granola bar around this room, so I was able to heal after fighting without using up a med kit.

Once clear, go up the makeshift ramp and pull the cart out of the way. Tess will help keep the door open, so go on through.

 
Loot this room for supplies, then go through the door. Time to go down now, so work your way down the ramps. Once you see the Oliver sign keep left and shimmy to the supplies and supplements. Keep going all the way around until you get to a Subway their are plenty of supplies on the way down. You find a dead Firefly so take his Molotov. 

Artifact 13: Firefly Map
Up some steps ahead is another dead Firefly, right next to him is this artifact.
   
Grab it to check out the Firefly Map. Move over by the vending machines now and crawl through the gap to continue forward. You come up on a room filled with Clickers. In one of the lockers to the left, you may be able to find a shiv. Sneak your way to the left to a store.

 
Artifact 14: Note to Derek
In the store on the left, there is this artifact in the store's cash register.
After you view it, looks like it has a safe combination on it, probably useful. To find the safe go to the far right of the station. You will find a runner in front of the safe, take it out to access the safe. 

 
Now, snake your way to the back of the Subway area. You get to a door with a grate over it. Look up to see a ledge that you can boost Tess up to. Climb the ladder that she knocks down then drop down to the other side of the wall. Climb out to the street from here.

Museum
Cross over to the opened building, take out the Infected, then grab the dumpster in the middle of the room and push it out the side of the building to the Lobster truck. Climb up here to get to the other side of the truck. 

Artifact 15: Medical Pamphlet
After you climb over, enter the same truck you just climbed over. Inside at the back, you will find this.

Pull open the garage door and QUICKLY GET INSIDE. Whew, that was close. Go over to the workbench, and make any upgrades that you can/want.

 
When done, grab the pills in the back of the truck here, then open the door right next to the workbench. Make your way through here then go through the door straight ahead. Grab the supplies and open the door to the left. You are now in a bigger room. Find some supplies in here if you need them, then head up the ramp to the next floor.

Firefly Pendant 5: Walk up the ramp of debris and hoist up on the ledge to your left. Shimmy over to collect the firefly pendant.

 
You are in a museum. Walk through a few rooms until you find a place you can crawl through. Lift the beam to let Tess and Ellie through, but it crumbles before you can make it, and as if on cue, Clickers show up.

 
Turn almost 180 degrees around and crawl through the other way now.To the left of the main hallway is a room which has a door, unlock it and get some ammo and parts. Cross the hall and sneak past the Clickers to get to the other end of the hallway. Open the door to get to a stairway. Climb up a few floors, then sneak out the door up here.

 
Take out the Runner who is attacking the door, then bust in to help Tess and Ellie. Clear the room of Runners.

Optional Conversation 5, 6: Talk to Tess by the exit after you clear all the Infected in the area. After she leaves, you can then talk to Ellie.

Once done, crawl out the window and up the fire escape. Grab a board up here and use it to make a bridge over to the other building with the Firefly logo on it.

The Capitol Building
Now you are down from the rooftops. Walk forward down the stairs to get back to street level.

Artifact 16: Firefly Orders
Once you're on the ground level, turn around and there will be a dead body. This artifact can be found lying next to him.

 
Find the dumpster down here and pull it over to the locked gate. Climb up and over the gate now out to the streets. Wade your way through the water.

Firefly Pendant 6: To the left, jump into the center of the gazebo in front of the capitol building to find a firefly pendant. It's a little off to the right inside of the gazebo.

Once you've retrieved that, head up the steps to the State House.

 
Watch what unfolds, because it's REAL. After all of that, grab the alcohol and wrap off the table to the right then go up the stairs and around to the same room but to the second floor. Quickly move into the next room, grab the pills from the podium, then jump across the gap into the third room.

   
Grab the Rifle here, then move into the next room and hide. Take out the guards, then move to the end of the hallway. Taking out guards will require moving to the side rooms, so make sure you know where all the guards are at all times. There are supplements on the desk in one of the rooms. Once clear, head through the door at the end of the hallway and down the stairs.

 
Drop down the long drop, then move into the next room and hide. Either sneak through the side rooms here, take on the guards, or a combination of both. Head outside, then down the stairs into the subway station.

 
When you drop down, guards will show up, so RUUUUUUN. You come up on a room filled with spores and two guards. Take out the guards, then drop down to the rails, and take a right and between the subway car and a pillar there is some supplements. Get into the back of the subway train against the far wall and make your way through here.

 
You come up on deep water. Swim through the water, pressing Circle to dive and pressing X to resurface. Ellie will take care of herself, so just swim at your own pace. Keep moving down the subway tunnel until Ellie finds a flashlight.

 
Head over to her now.

Artifact 10: Smuggler Note
Next to a corpse near Ellie, you can grab this artifact on the ground.

Move down the hallway ahead and dive underwater. You come up by a building that is underwater.

Firefly Pendant 7: Inside is a Firefly Pendant on the shelves underwater and some building supplies.

Swim out of the building and to the surface, climb on top of the building to find some supplements.

   
Now back out to Ellie. There is a wood pallet here, so move it over for Ellie to jump on. Take it back across so she can get off. There is a ladder over here too, so climb up to get out of the water. Follow the path forward to head up some stairs and back outside.

The Woods
You are now out in the woods. Head forward to get to a trail. If you want some supplies, look down by the grate to your right in the riverbed. To the right of the grate along the path is some enhancement pills. Once further down the trail, you get to the base of a water tower.

 
Move around the left of the fence to find a plank. Grab it and move the plank so that it is leaning against the building directly behind it. Now go find the air conditioning unit and climb on here, then get on top of the building. There is a modified melee weapon up here, so be sure to pick it up.

 
Now pull up the plank, then lay it across the gap to clear the fence. Drop down here and move past the water tower down a hill. You see a break in the fence here, so go through into the town ahead. There is a Clicker in the shed straight in front of you, so go around and up the metal stairs to the side door of a building.

Artifact 18: Pills Note
There is a room up here with some computers in it as well as this artifact.

 
If you are feeling brave, go downstairs, take out the Clicker in the shed, and pick up the item on the shelf. There is another Clicker in the area, so kill him too if you want. Once you're done in the area, drop down next to those metal stairs. Open the shiv door on the left for a bunch of items. Boost Ellie up and over the fence, and then move through the gate. Once over fence you can't return.

 
There are lots of goodies around, especially back by the garden area. There are a few supplies in the pizza shop as well.

Optional Conversation 7: When walking into the pizza shop Ellie will notice a arcade machine, which will prompt an optional conversation.

There are a bunch of parts near the blue dumpster behind the pizza shop. There are also a few parts up the stairs next to the pizza shop.

Firefly Pendant 8: Climb up onto the RV to get a Firefly Pendant.

Artifact 19: Note to Bob
Farther down past the RV, there is a wall blocking the street. On the barbed wire, there is this artifact.

Once you are finished, head back down the road towards the pizza shop, on your left before the pizza shop will be a pick up truck and safe. Open the safe. It contains ammo, items, and other supplies, then go back in the record store.

   
Artifact 20: Perimeter Note
In the back office of the record store, you can find this artifact on the desk.

Now go behind the record store. You will see some of Bill's traps in action, so keep your eyes peeled for more of them. There is an unlockable door back here that you can use a shiv to open.

 
There are lots of goodies in here to grab. Heading back outside behind the buildings, you see a man shot dead with arrows. snag the arrows then go down the stairs to grab the ladder. Lean it up against the back of the truck here, then climb on up. The Bow is up on the top of the truck with another arrow.

 
Cross the beam onto the roof and climb up the ladder here to reach the rooftops. It's too far a jump to make it to the next roof, so go back to grab that beam and bring it up to the rooftops to stretch across the gap.

 
Kill the Clicker in front of you, then keep moving across the rooftops towards the Church and the smoke. Drop down from the ladder back to the street then duck under Bill's trap.

There is a door down here that is being beaten on from the inside, so go over and open it up! There are supplies on the left before the stairs. Take the stairs up and head to the bedroom for more supplies. There is one Runner as you go through to the kitchen.

Artifact 21: Note to Rachel
After you take care of the Runner, this note can be found on the table in the room.

After you have picked up the artifact, grab the supplements from the bathroom.

Go down the alley and use bottles or pistol to take out the two trip wires. Open door in warehouse to exit area and get ready for a cut scene.

Safehouse
After the drama of that cutscene (Ellie's got a bit of a pottymouth), you are now safe for a bit. Get all the supplies you can in the restaurant.

Artifact 22: Bill's Map
If you remember from the cutscene, Bill pointed out the location on the map. Retrieve the map from the same table that was on the cutscene.

Artifact 23: Fences Note
There is a small room in here. In the room on the coffee table, you can find this artifact.

Training Manual 1: Shiv Sharpening
Check the bar, you can find this manual lying on the counter. (Note: If you're on New Game Plus, you probably picked this up on your last playthrough, and it won't be there).

Optional Conversation 8: Go to the chess board on one of the tables of one of the booths for a optional conversation about chess with Ellie.

   
Once done, go over to Bill, who will let you out the back way. Follow him upstairs, and collect the supplies up here.

Artifact 24: Hunters Note
Turn right at the top of the stairs and there will be a kitchen, this will be on a table in here.

 
Once ready, follow Bill out behind the building sign and into another window. Move through this apartment then down the stairs into a diner. Watch as Bill empties one of his traps, then head outside to the street.

 
Right outside you get ambushed by a decent amount of Infected. eliminate them all.

Firefly Pendant 9: Look up at the light posts down the street, one of them will have a firefly pendant. Throw a brick or bottle to get it.

Follow Bill across the street through a gate, check the shed for some stuff. Then head up some stairs. Once up the stairs, run to your left, you will find a bundle of ten parts. Head over to the cellar door and go on in. You now have the Shotgun.

 
Go talk to Bill to get one of his Nail Bombs. There are tons of supplies in this basement, including "tools," so collect everything you can find. There's also a bench down here if you want to build anything. Once your ready to head out, follow Bill up the stairs into the Church.

 
Artifact 25: Bombs Note
There is a room to the right as you get closer to Bill. When you go in, Bill will tell you it's his room. On his desk you can find this artifact.

Graveyard
Once you're ready to take off from the Church, head over to Bill and follow him out of a window in the back of the Church. It's stealth time now, as there are a bunch of Clickers in the cemetary. It's pretty easy to have any approach here, stealth killing, sneaking, or gunz-a-blazin.

 
Once you make it down to the bottom of the cemetary, head out the gate here towards the school. This is another section where stealth will be your friend. Make sure you have some shivs to take out Clickers. There are also regular Runners as well, so be prepared to also strangle people and have a finger on your trigger if your stealth plan goes arseways.

There are 3 infected in the yard to the right.

Firefly Pendant 10: Inside the house's laundry room next to the kitchen there is a firefly pendant. 

 
You will come up on a garage on your left. Go in the garage, then out the door in the garage to keep moving forward. The door is tied, so rip off the doggy-door cover and let Ellie crawl through. Head out of the garage now, but be ready for more Clickers in the house. TIP: If you flank right, you can see them by the patio door, one well placed Molotov will dispatch of them all!

 
Once you clear out the house, there are very few supplies. Listen to what Bill says here, how you are just going to get in, get the battery, and run out as fast as possible. Head outside and up on the RV to make it into the treehouse. Once you're up here, drop down into the yard next door with the pool.

 
The school is on the other side of this house and there are no infected around. Loot the shed out back and the house as there are lots of supplies here.

Artifact 26: Boy's Diary
If you go to the second floor, there is a boy's room with this artifact by the window.

Optional Conversation 9: As you leave, Ellie enters the room and asks if you can talk.

 
Once you feel you have fully looted the house, step into the garage and help Bill lift up the garage door. Sneak or blast your way through the Infected here, then get to a bus that you can boost Ellie up on. Once she's up there, she'll knock down a ladder to help you and Bill climb up. Follow Bill around the school as he discovers that the school door is locked. He'll find an open window, so follow him in - Just in time!

High School Escape
Uh oh, your plan to get the battery has failed. Follow Bill through the school now. There are some supplies on the landing of the stairs at the first encounter. Stealth kill your way through the hall into what looks like a science classroom. Work your way through the back of the room and out into a different hallway.

 
You make your way to a door that is blocked. Push your way through and a super scary Infected comes into the gym. He's a Bloater, so use Molotovs to really mess with him, then follow through with a Shotgun. Do NOT try to be stealthy! Once dead, head over to the room the Bloater came from and get a few supplies and parts before boosting Bill up to the top of the bleachers.

 
After Bill and Ellie get up, three Runners come attack you. Kill them then get pulled up to the bleachers as well. Jump out of the window, then back down to the ground.

 
Run through the hole in the fence, then climb up the ladder against the wooden fence. After all that, loot the house; check 'bedroom' and kitchen.

Artifact 27: Note from Frank
In the bedroom, on the desk there is this artifact. Grabbing this artifact activates an optional conversation with Bill.

Optional Conversation 10: After you retrieved the previous artifact, go to Bill and you will be able to give him the note.

Artifact 28: Note from Frank (Crumpled)
After Bill reads the note and crumples it, and throws it to the ground. Go retrieve it. Yes, it counts as another collectible.

Optional Conversation 11: There is also a conversation with Ellie as she sits in the driver's seat.

 
Once ready, get behind the truck and push. Ellie doesn't get the clutch to pop the first time, so quickly get behind the truck and push again. Infected will start coming at you, so act quickly. You will have to push and stop a few times to get to the hill at the end of the street. Once there, run and hop into the bed of the truck to drive off.

Alone and Forsaken
Artifact 29: Siphon Hose
Bill gives this to Joel in the previous cutscene.

Comic 1: Force Carrier
You will also have this collectible from the beginning of the chapter because Ellie stole it from Bill in the previous chapter.

After slamming into the hardware store, be ready to follow the onscreen prompts. Once you have taken full control of Joel again, go save Ellie! After beating down those thugs who jump you, take out the other ones (the rifle is particularly useful here since there is a long shooting gallery). Then loot the store [under cash register and soda machine, health bar by extinguisher in center of room] and the garage office [in the front table and in locker & 2 desks of office], and find a garage door to lift up and sneak under.

 
Looting this room includes Level 2 tools, a Smoke grenade, and some supplies in a locker.

Optional Conversation 12: Make your way over to Ellie as you enter, you will be able to initiate an optional conversation when she stops by a pile. 

Artifact 30: Tourists Manifest
In the right corner of the room, you can find this on the tipped over cabinet.

Once ready, find the door on the left and move on out.

   
Head up the stairs, then through the door. Loot the sleeping area up here.

Training Manual 2: Health Splinting
Near the middle of the room, on the rack near the mattress you can find this manual.

 
Once looted, go through the blue door at the end of the hallway to find more supplies, an Artifact (the Ambush Map), and a crafting bench.

Artifact 31: Ambush Map
On the wall in the room with the workbench, you can find it on the wall by the door you entered the room by.

 
Once ready, head back out to the hallway and find the gray door along the wall to go through. Once back outside, head up the metal stairs, then drop down to meet up with Ellie. You are now back on street-level. Turn left, immediately, for some weapons parts, then directly across from the drop to street level are some upgrade pills and gun parts.

Comic 2: Termination Shock
There is a crashed bus ahead, towards the back of inside of the bus you can find this comic on the floor.

 
Optional Conversation 13: Meet back up with Ellie and have a conversation by the body that appears to have fallen out of the car.  

Now continue down the street. Take cover, because three enemies show up. Let them wander down the street until you either want to take them out or they are out of range. Once clear, run over to the military zone where the crashed bus is.

Ellie’s Jokes 01: Wait near the car by the bus until Ellie pulls out her joke book to tell you some jokes (Required for the That's All I Got Trophy). Push triangle to start her off and listen to her jokes. Note, it can take a while for her to get her book, so be patient and stand still.

Climb up onto a car then get to the top of the crashed bus blocking your way. Drop down by the military checkpoint, and go all the way to the right to find some gun parts.

Optional Conversation 14: After dropping down, to the right there is graffiti on the wall. When Ellie starts to talk about it, you can initiate an optional conversation afterwards. 

Artifact 32: Lost Hill Note
After the conversation, jump over the sandbags and just under the counter in the guard booth, this artifact will be on the ground.

 
The Last of Us Remastered Grounded Walkthrough Part 12: Alone and Forsaken No Damage All Collectibles



Once you have looted the area, continue through the checkpoint. You hear a few Hunters ahead, so use your focused hearing to get an idea of where they are at. You should take them out as you are about to get into some kind of enemy outpost. There are A LOT of enemies in this book store (2 floors).

The Last of Us Walkthrough Part 16 - Pittsburgh: Alone and Forsaken pt 2
14:56
The best bet would be to sneak around taking out every enemy you see. If Hunters see you, there are plenty of brick and bottles for distractions and places to hide behind to make them all walk around cluelessly.

 
Once you have taken out the last Hunter, loot the book store. There are tons of nooks and crannies to find hidden goodies in here.

Ellie’s Jokes 02: Go by the cafe and wait for a minute, Ellie will pull out her joke book again. Push triangle to start her off and listen to her jokes. All enemies need to be eliminated for this to work.

Artifact 33: Lost Areas Map
To the right of the counter, there is a shiv door. Behind the shiv door you can find this artifact locked away, as well as some pills, 5 parts, and some other items.

Artifact 34: Abandon Zone Note
In one of the office like areas on the ground floor of the bookstore (the right side of the store), you can find this on a desk.

Artifact 35: Applicant Checklist
From the entrance of the bookstore, turn right and you will see a set of stairs. Under those stairs, you can find this artifact hidden in the darkness.

Firefly Pendant 11: In the alley in the far end of the bookstore area, you can find this behind the tipped shelf.

Artifact 36: Traitors Flyer
Around where you first entered the bookstore area before you encountered the Hunters, there are walls in front of the bookstore. If you are facing the front of the bookstore, turn right and you should be able to see it plastered on the wall.

 
Once ready to move on, head up to the second floor and find the double doors with the EXIT sign over them. Go on through here and down the stairs to keep moving towards the bridge. There are a couple of supplies under the stairs you came down. Follow the street, past the strung up soldiers, go up the metal stairs then drop down onto the truck  Look for upgrade parts to the right of the truck to the left and back some there are some supplements as well. Go down the alley until you are out on a major street.

 
Looks like the coast is clear now, so go loot the area.

Optional Conversation 15: Spin 180 degrees and walk away from the cab and look to your right, you will see advertisments on the wall, one of a model. Ellie will ask you about her.

Ellie’s Jokes 03: After Ellie has stopped talking, she will walk about for a while, and eventually get out her joke book.

Continue back, with the model on your right to find some crafting ingredients. Then wait a minute and she will pull out her joke book again. There's a door with a red X to the left of the cab that you can use a shiv to get open. There's plenty of loot in there (arrows, revolver rounds, 50 gun parts, rifle rounds, 15 upgrade pills, tape, bandage, and scissors) as well as an artifact (Mother's Letter) on the chair when you first walk in.

Artifact 37: Mother's Letter
As mentioned above, in the room behind the shiv door you can locate this artifact on the chair.

 
Back out on the street now, get into the water and swim over by the road overpass. Some big tank thing drives by, but you can ignore it for now. Grab the wood pallet (dive under for 10 parts) and bring it over for Ellie to sit on. Float her over to the bus where you saw those Hunters.

 
She will get off and extend a bridge, so you need to go into the back of the semi truck here.

Artifact 38: Stash Note
Go through the truck to get into a cafe. Get out of the water and loot the cafe, including going up to the second floor. There are lots of items here (including a shiv) as well as an Artifact (Stash Note...which tells you about the room you just looted, yay).

Once looted, go back to the first floor and get on top of the semi trailer now. Walk across the bridge and into the hotel.

Hotel Lobby
The lobby is clear, so search all over looting it. To the left side of the entrance (construction area), you'll find the ladder. Walk past the ladder. There is a cafe with some supplies and a coffee maker.

Optional Conversation 16: Go near the coffee maker for an optional comment from Joel.

Pick up the ladder and carry it over toward the staircase, but on the way stop and prop it up on the other side of the scaffold you took it from. There is 10 parts up there. Now look across, there is a break in the hand rail, jump down and prop the ladder there and climb on up.

 
At the top of the ladder, turn right and go down the lobby stairs, you can inch your way back up the other side.

Artifact 39: Note to Staff
There's an Artifact up here that gives you the combination to the safe. After you climb the ladder, on the right is a passage you can shimmy by to retrieve this artifact in the suitcase. Hop the railing and head left to the front desk. There's a 5 pill bottle, some ingredients, and the safe. Open the safe in the room behind the front desk.  

 
Training Manual 3: Shiv Reinforcement
In the safe, there is a training manual that lets you make three stabs with a shiv before it breaks, along with 50 parts, and some ammo and ingredients.

 
Head back up the ladder now.

Ellie’s Jokes 04: Once back up the ladder, stand still and wait for Ellie to pull out her joke book a fourth time.

Head out through a window (from one of the many trailers) and hear some more Hunters in the area. Be on your guard now as you sneak into the window across the clearing now. You are now in the actual hotel area where all the rooms are.

Hunters abound here so take whatever approach you would like. TONS of items scattered here, but it requires a lot of hunting. It's best to take out all of the enemies first, then roam the hallways unhindered.

 
Once ready, head up the staircase to the next floor. There are more Hunters up here. Take out the guys up on this floor and loot everything again.

Optional Conversation 17: In one room are people in a tub that sparks a short conversation with Ellie.

There's also 5 upgrade pills in the vanity behind the tub people and a hole in the wall leading to a blocked off room with ingredients under that bathroom's sink and 10 gun parts in the adjoining bedroom (with a big hole in the floor). Check out the balcony to get a "great" view of the desolation of Pittsburgh, then head inside and loot the bed dresser for some gun parts. Take the other staircase up now, and find an elevator. Mash Triangle to force the doors open, then climb up the ladder. Shimmy around the fence then drop down to the other elevator. Boost Ellie up the ledge to the open door, then take a quick plunge.

 
Swim forward to get to a room with three possible exits. The one to the left involves opening a door. That is NOT the right way to go, as evidenced by the massive piles of rubble that rain down. Going through the open double doors on the right nets you a few supplies, but is not the way to keep moving forward. Let's try going straight ahead now.


Looks like we will have to dive down the flooded stairway. Swim down through a door into a room with a few floating bodies. Very creepy, but you have to ignore them and keep going if you don't want to drown. Through another door here into a room where you can surface and breath. There is a door off to the right side with a few supplies in it. Find the door with the sign above it saying "West Tower B1" and dive down in the water until you can swim through the door under it.

 
You pop out in the staff locker room. Move out into the hallway, and Joel will put on his gasmask. Keep going until you find a door to the right. There's a generator in here, so wait to power it up. To move forward, you need to find the access card. The best way to do this is to head upstairs and find it before starting the generator. If you go up the rubble ramp next to the generator and turn around there is a door at the far end of the room and one to the right of it. Head through the door on the right and go straight across the hall into the security room to snag the access card.

Artifact 40: Hotel Keycard
The access card here is an artifact, since this is story driven, this artifact can't be missed.

 
Now go back downstairs and power on the generator. Maybe that wasn't the best idea. A bunch of Runners and a Bloater will show up, so arm yourself. Either run upstairs to try to avoid the Infected or stand and fight them all. Either way, you need to get to a door upstairs that is locked. It's all the way to the left once you get to the second floor. Swipe the card in the reader, then head through the door.

 
Go up the stairs and through that door to a hallway. There's a bench here if you want to craft any upgrades. After looting all the rooms and building your upgrades, head out the door at the end of the hall. You come up on a kitchen with a Clicker in the distance. Some Hunters get into the kitchen and take out the Clicker, but then start scanning the rest of the kitchen for more Infected.

 
Take them all out however you would like. Make sure to stop in the freezer for some supplies too. Once you make it to the front of the dining room, there is a ladder on the ground. Pick it up and prop it up against the wall directly in front of you. Climb on up to get kicked right back down. Good thing Ellie has your back, right? Time to get out of here.

 
Climb back up the ladder, this time not getting kicked off. Move through the conference room, but duck back into the dining room again.

Comic 3: Accretion 
Shimmy along the ledge to get over to the bar area. There are a few supplies here, and the comic is on the table by the couches. Snag everything, then head back to Ellie.

 
Go down the stairs here and drop down to the lower level.

Firefly Pendant 12: There's a women's restroom here to the left, so go in here to find a Firefly Pendant.

 
Go back into the hallway.

Training Manual 4: Melee Knots
A little farther down to find a Training Manual on a table.

Go forward now, jumping over a table in the way to get to a ballroom.

Optional Conversation 18: Head over to the beach back drop and start an optional conversation with Ellie.

On the stage, push the piano over against the wall. Use it as a stepping stone to climb up. Once up here, move towards the open door, then the double doors. Climb out onto the scaffolding.

Financial District
After finding out that these Hunters know of your presence, let's mess with them some more. Head off to the left after the group finishes talking, and take out a Hunter here.

 
Sneak into the bank and take out a second. Now, sneak your way through the courtyard taking out enemies as you go. A good way to do this is to go back to where you started, then go to the other side into Rivers Cafe. Move upstairs and take out the guard up here, then continue to take out enemies.

Artifact 41: Fireflies Note
On the right of the area is a sub shop. In the freezer in the back you can find this artifact.

 
There are two "waves" kinda, so after clearing out the first, start on the second. You cannot take them all out without being seen, so make sure you have the guns you want loaded. After taking out the last guard, there will be a cutscene.

Optional Conversation 19: Around the beginning of the area, by the closest tree on the left there will be a body hanging from it. Stay there long enough and Ellie will come over and look at it, starting an optional conversation. 

Loot the courtyard area now, then move to the back by the RV. Go over to the garage door and lift it up to move on.

 
Grab the cart that Ellie used to hold open the door and drag it over to the window. Climb on up and over to find a work bench you can build upgrades at.

 
Hop over the downed table to see some really messed up stuff. Now head out the door and go up the stairs. You hear two Hunters coming, so either hide behind the small wall across from the stairwell and let them pass or go back downstairs and take cover. Depending on the optinon you chose, you can leave them be or take out the Hunters, then go upstairs and all the way down the hallway.

Artifact 42: Final Attack Note
Under a desk up here, you can find this artifact.

A rubble ramp leads from up here back down to the street.

The Last of Us Walkthrough Part 20 - Pittsburgh: Financial District pt 2
The Last of Us Walkthrough Part 20 - Pittsburgh: Financial District pt 2
21:22
The Last of Us Remastered Grounded Walkthrough Part 15: Financial District No Damage All Collectibles



Move down the street until you get to an intersection. There are Hunters up in the second floor of a building across the street. There are also grenade traps around, so make sure you look where you are going. Sneak across the street to the building where the Hunters are. Go up the stairs and take out the two guards up here.

Artifact 43: Mob Attack Note
There is a large desk with a computer on it and behind it, there is this artifact.

 
Make your way down the stairs now, and eliminate the few remaining Hunters over by the tank.

Artifact 44: Truck Note
In the credit union/ration depot, there is this artifact on top of a desk in here as well as a shiv door to open.

 
Loot the building, then head back across the street to the fire escapes. Boost Ellie up then climb up the ladder she knocks down. Make your way across the fire escape until you can drop down onto a truck on the other side of the wall. You're getting close to the bridge now.

Note: Just before you boost Ellie up the fire escape ladder, there are four or five soldiers that have been killed against a brick wall. There is a conversation prompt, but apparently it doesn't count towards your Optional Conversation count. You don't need to talk to Ellie in this instance to receive the trophy.

 
Optional Conversation 20: Ellie will talk about the military prep school here.

Optional Conversation 21: Behind you is a large movie poster (Dawn of the Wolf: Part 2) which Ellie will talk about while Joel reminiscence.

Move on down the alley until you hear some voices and the humvee. Get into stealth mode and slowly make your way down the alley until you pass the building. There's a Hunter on the side of the building, so stealth kill him. Sneak along the side of the building now and run into the bush outside of the side door.

 
This will alert a Hunter, so hide in the bush until he comes out, then stealth kill him. Take out the last guy in the store with stealth now, then go back to the side of the building. Sneak from behind the van to behind the police car, then across the street.

 
There are two more Hunters in this building across the street, so take them out while avoiding line of sight with the Humvee. Loot the back room, then move down the back alley behind the store. Take out the Hunted and keep going until you find an open door on the left. The Humvee may come chasing you back here, so quickly run into the building then up the stairs to the second floor. Head out the window to the fire escape, and go up a floor. Cross over the wood plank bridge and shimmy along the building ledge until you can hop into a bedroom window.

 
Loot this apartment, then hop out the window by the fridge. Shimmy down along the building until you find another window with a curtain blowing out the side. Jump in to see what's going on.

 
After meeting Henry and Sam, loot the apartment. There's a decent amount of goodies here

Training Manual 5: Molotov Construction
The highlist of goodies is the manual on the kitchen counter.

Once ready, head down the stairs following the group.

 Comic 4: Deep Phase
One floor down, there is a shiv door. Inside there are a ton of supplies but in the kids' bedroom, you'll find this comic on the chair.  
Now follow Henry and Sam back down the stairs. After going through the toy store, you come out to find three Hunters in the parking lot. Take them out, then climb from the car to the truck to the top of the building on the left. Once you get to the first roof, take cover because two more Hunters come out.

 
Take them out, and jump up to the next roof section where they came from.

Firefly Pendant 13: Once across and into the building, check out the Mens bathroom to find a Firefly Pendant.

Now head across the hallway through the door that Henry is holding open. You are now in the offices of an architecture firm.

Artifact 45: Trial Note
In the conference room with the big table, you can find this artifact on the ground in the corner.

 
There isn't much in the rest of the office, so move through it until Henry unlocks the door to the CEO's office.

Escape the City
Time to take out that night-time skeleton crew. Follow Henry out of the office now and down the stairs to street level. You and him will both sneak up on the two Hunters standing by the fire and stealth kill both.

 
Now head out the side door. You need to stick to the shadows, so don't go near the spotlight. Stick to the right side and make sure to take cover behind concrete barriers to not be seen. When close enough, turn off the generator, killing the search light.

 
Now, prepare to hide or stand and take on the Hunters who drop down. Once all taken care of, head over to the big door they were guarding, and rush inside. There's one more Hunter here, but Henry can take him out really quickly. Go over to the semi trailer and boost Ellie up to the half ladder at the top.

 
Well, that WOULD have been a good plan. Henry is such a jerk. Run over to the big garage door and quickly interact with it to get inside away from the Humvee. Moving around in here, you come out in an Irish Pub. Take out the handful of Hunted in here, then grab the cart blocking the front door. Move it out of the way, and head out the front door.

 
The Humvee is coming now, so RUUUUN!!! Keep running as fast as you can until you have to jump over a barrier by a bus.

Sewers
Good thing you didn't drown, and hey, Henry is back! Follow them down the coast now until you get to a boat.

Artifact 46: Boat Note
Climb aboard and open up the main cabin door to find this artifact on the dash.

Comic 5: Antiparticles
Right next to the note is this comic book.

There may also be other supplies in the main cabin.

   
Firefly Pendant 14: Go on the deck, and drop through the hole to find the Firefly Pendant of Josh Soheffler behind a fishing net.

 
When you are ready, climb up the rocks by the waterfall to get to a sewer grate. Yank it off with Triangle to get through. Head forward through the sewer.

 
Firefly Pendant 15: There will be a small space you can crawl through on the right, so go in there to find a dead end and a Firefly Pendant.

 
Head back out to the main sewer again, and you come up on a fork. The two guys take the left way, so go right. You come up on a caged area, but the door is blocked. Look at the floor for a grate to rip off the wall. Ellie can crawl through here and open up the door.

Artifact 47: Sewers Note
In the room that Ellie opened up, you can find this on the table as well as other supplies in here.

 
Cut through the tunnel directly across the hallway from the cage to meet back up with the guys. Head through the door up here now, and continue down the sewer. You come across a large room that is mostly flooded.

Firefly Pendant 16: There is a car here, so go dive by it to find a Firefly Pendant.

 
Now swim over to the huge door and pull out the pipe that is blocking the door from opening. Henry cranks open the door the full way now, so swim through.

 
Climb up the ladder and you will hear some familiar and unwelcome sounds. Go to the left of this walkway to toss a wood pallet over into the water. Head over to the door now, and open it up. Eliminate the two Clickers.

Artifact 48: Trading Note
In the back corner of the room near a mattress, you can find this on the ground.

 
Move back to the water, and swim with the pallet over to Ellie. Let her hop on and swim her over to the little waterfall area here. She'll hop out, power up the generator, and pull the two men over. Now hop out with the help of Henry and continue down the sewer.

 
There's a small room on the left here with a few supplies as well as Level 3 tools, so stock up then head over to what looks like a castle drawn with chalk. Head through the door and find a lot of awesome things.

 
First, you find a sawed off shotgun on a table, so get that for a new weapon.

Training Manual 6: Bomb Containment 
There is a manual on the bottom shelf over here.

 
Move down the hallway here now until you get to a door. Once through the door, a group of Infected attack including a Clicker, so fight them all off.

Artifact 49: Rain Catcher Note 
Once clear, head up the stairs here to get to a few more supplies and an Artifact.

 
Go back down now, and hop the barrier to continue forward.

Artifact 50: Cornered Note
Check out the door to the left to find more supplies and another Artifact.

Move forward and open a gated door to trigger a trap.


Ellie and Henry have run off to protect themselves, so now you need to go do the same. There are lots of infected in this room. They are mostly Runners and one or two Clickers. Take them all out, then loot the area. There's plenty of supplies around, so don't be stingy.

 
Artifact 51: Kid's Drawing
You eventually come across a "classroom" with lots of Children's toys and things like that. There's an Artifact here, so grab it.

Then boost Sam up a ledge to knock down a ladder.

 
You move up the ladder and into the next room to see some familiar faces. Yay! Oh wait, RUN!!! Start sprinting forward until you get into a room with a blocked door. Sam will crawl through a tunnel to open the door, so keep going. Run up the stairs and drop down to get to a cleared room. Loot it then go open the door. Oh, it's blocked. Ellie and Sam go above the door through the window to unjam the door, so you and Henry have to stand your guard. Be ready to fight some Infected. Once the door is clear, run through it.

Suburbs
You are now outside. Continue forward with the group, stopping to pick up the supplies in the back of the van. Move forward to see the radio tower as you approach a town. Walk along the road until you find a brick house you can go in.

 
Artifact 52: Looting Note 
Head in and loot all three floors. There's an Artifact up on the third floor in one of the bedrooms.

 
When you're ready, head back out the front door and continue down the road.

If you're going for the trophy about Ellie's jokes and optional conversations, first go into the kitchen of the house with the "U LOOT I SHOOT" warning and listen to Henry's spiel on barbeque.

Optional Conversation 22: Next, go across the street to the house with the warning "I'M ARMED NO TRESPASSING" and be ready to answer Henry when he asks you a question.

Optional Conversation 23: Moving forward, follow Ellie and Sam to the ice cream truck and answer Ellie's question. Go back a little bit and you'll come across a garage with a workbench in it. Construct any upgrades that you can, then continue to the next house.

 
This one is also made out of brick. Head in to resupply.

Artifact 53: Father's Note
On the second floor in the master bedroom, this can be found on the dresser.

Training Manual 7: Melee Techniques
In the area upstairs, there is an attic. Pull down the ladder to the attic from here and boost Ellie up into it. She'll pull down a Training Manual to make your melee weapons stronger.

   
Move onto the next house now (blue siding) as the dogs run away when you get close. 

Artifact 54: Survivors Note
There's an Artifact up on the second floor again (by the computer).

Comic 6: Messenger Particle
There is also a comic book in the bathroom.

 
Artifact 55: Matchbook
Head up to the attic to find a matchbook that has a safe combination written in it. Go back down a floor into a bedroom to unlock the safe and get more supplies. 

Optional Conversation 24: When you go downstairs you see the kids playing darts, after they have finish you have a go at darts.

Ellie’s Jokes 05: Once all 4 optional conversations have been activated in this area, go to the dead end at the very end of the road, and wait for Ellie to wander around until she pulls out her joke book for the final time.

Firefly Pendant 17: In the backyard after Ellie tells her joke, in the tree above the swingset that hangs from a tree branch.

Go back through the blue sided house and now head to the back yard when you are ready. Take the stairs back here to continue toward the radio tower.

 
You drop down and immediately get shot at. Not a nice thing to happen. Joel is going to go take out the sniper while everyone else hangs back to distract him. There are tons of ways to approach this area, but one thing to keep in mind is that being stealthy is really hard.

 
The Hunters here are all looking for you, and will attack immediately on sight. All of the houses have supplies in them. You can climb up the wall to the left and hop through the window of the first house. If you hide behind the kitchen counter, you can take out one of the hunters stealthily. But watch out, there are plenty more around the corner. The broken house at the end also has some supplies on the upper floor.

You can also take the path over to the right. A good strategy is to wait until the sniper has fired a shot, then sprint to the next cover and wait for the next shot. Be aware that the sniper can shoot through open windows in the houses. This applies especially to the first two houses on the right. The last house on the right has supplies underneath the outdoor stairway (right side). Crouch to crawl underneath. There is also an open kitchen on the other side that you can only access from the side facing the sniper.

Whichever way you choose (or both!), make your way to the house at the end of the street with the sniper. Once in the house, head up to the third floor and into the room with the sniper. Keep in mind that once you have entered the sniper's nest, you will no longer be able to explore the area for supplies. Fight him off, then take a turn with his weapon yourself.

You now have to protect your friends. This sniper section is decently long, so don't worry about ammo. There is an infinite supply. Also, don't worry about headshots, as any shot that lands is an insta-kill.

 
Take out all of the Hunters until the Tank shows back up again. Wait for the driver to pop out of the top with a Molotov and shoot him to light up the whole tank. This causes some Infected to show up, and by "some" I mean a TON. Take them out by providing cover for everyone else. Once they get to the house you are in, you all make the smart choice to simply book it.

Hydroelectric Dam
Start off by walking forward now into Jackson County. The road you are on crumbles at the end.



The El Diablo pistol is location near the open driver's door of the rusting law enforcement jeep. There's some alcohol and nail/scissor parts lying on the road behind the trunk.

 
Follow the "path" until you are in the river bed. Move down the river, jumping over rocks that are in your way.

Comic 7: Foreign Element 
Before heading under the bridge towards the hydroelectric plant, on a hill to your right is a rusted up car, and a collectable comic for Ellie.

Once done, head over to the plant and go up the stairs and use a shiv to get through the door.

 
Loot the room, then head over to the wheel next to the dam. Turn it to raise half of the improvised bridge, then hop over the rail that is upriver to walk around the side of the building. Dive in the water and swim down until you find a sunken building. In the roof is a wood palate that you can kick free.

 
Use the pallet to bring Ellie to the other side of the dam. She'll turn the wheel on this side, so go back to where you came from and walk across the newly formed bridge. Jump off the walkway and check out the abandoned camp site.

 
Optional Conversation 25: High five Ellie then walk over to the grave marked with a teddybear to talk with Ellie.

Now turn around and climb up the rocks. You come up sandwiched between a fence and the power plant wall. Go over to the outpost to find some supplies and an artifact. There are also some supplements behind the bulldozer. 

Artifact 56: Power Plant Map
In the same outpost with the supplies, you find this pinned to the wall in there.

   
When ready, try to open the power plant doors. After that touching reunion, walk along with everyone until you get to the building.

Optional Conversation 26: There is an optional conversation with Ellie about horses while she's petting one and you can also pet the horse yourself.

Now you are working with Tommy. He has something to show you, so go talk to him. Move upstairs and head to the left into a room with some supplements and parts then head back out and follow Tommy to the center of the Power Plant.

Optional Conversation 27: On the outside platform, before you head into the center, is a woman with a rifle with whom you can have an optional conversation.

 
Training Manual 8: Smoke Chemistry
There's a Training manual on the counter by the main console, so grab it to make your smokescreens last twice as long.

There's a work bench over here too, so build any upgrades you want. Go into the turbine room, and watch as power gets restored to the facility.

Firefly Pendant 18: Walk down here and go into a door under the room you were just in. There's some supplies and a Firefly Pendant in here.

 
When you are ready, follow Tommy through the far door in the turbine room.

You guys are under attack now! Fight your way through the turbine room and out back where you just came from.

Artifact 57: Plant Schematics 
Make sure to grab the Artifact on the table in the control room before leaving.

 
Fight your way across the bridge and then into the other building. Kill all of the men who are attacking. You are now on a horse chasing down Ellie.

 
Follow Tommy to a dead end, then go back a bit to where a trail leads off of the main road. Follow Tommy and the trail down here until you jump over a log and get attacked. Kill all of the Hunters down here, then hop back on your horses.

 
Jump over the log with barbed wire at the top to continue down the path. Keep going until you get to a ranch.

Ranch House
Get close to the front door and hop off your horse using Triangle. Loot the first floor of the house here.

Firefly Pendant 19: There is a pendant on a desk (on the first floor).

 
Once ready, head upstairs.

Comic 8: Zero Point 
There's a Comic in the bedroom left at the top of the stairs.

Keep looting the rest of the rooms, even though they don't have anything too special.

 
Open the door at the end of the hallway now to find Ellie. Two Hunters are now on the second floor with three downstairs. Hide in the bedroom until one walks into the bathroom. Take him out, then let the second guy walk past and take him out as well. Now, move downstairs. Go really slowly until they break off into rooms. Take out the one to the right, in the kitchen, first. Then move across the hall and take the other two out. Now head out the front door to get to the horses.

Go Big Horns
You are now at the Eastern Colorado University.

Comic 9: Free Radicals 
Instead of going through the gate, head all the way back up the street to get to a Comic.

 
There are also 10 supplements hidden behind the car found at the end of the street.


Now head onto the campus. There is a building to the right that has an open garage. Head in here to find the Flame Thrower!

 
Artifact 58: Sniper's Nest Log
There is also tons of supplies, a bench in the garage to build upgrades, and an Artifact up two flights of stairs.

 
Once you are ready to head out, get back on the horse to hop over the barriers lined with barbed wire.

Optional Conversation 28: After clearing the hurdle, on the top of the building to the left is a Big Horns banner that you can have a conversation with Ellie about.

Once up the street into the clearing, the only way to go will be through the gaping hole in the building on the left.

Firefly Pendant 20: But first, go to your right, there will be a firefly pendant up in the yellow tree. Don't waste your bullets, throw one of the nearby bottles to knock it down.

Head back to the hole in the wall and move down the hallway to a closed gate.

 
Go through the gate to hear some Runners. Ellie and the horse stay back, so move forward.

Artifact 59: Wall Panel Note
Off to the right is a metal gate that has been tampered with, grab the note next to the gate's control panel.

 
Sneak your way up the stairs leading back the way you came. Move down the hall until you get to a walkway. Now be super sneaky. There are five runners up here, so take them out however you wish (that new Flame Thrower is pretty fun here if you want to ignore stealth.) Once all clear, power up the generator and head on out the door with Ellie. Head up the flight of stairs and get back on the horse to clear the barbed wire barrier here.

Firefly Pendant 21: Before jumping the barbed barrier, to the right there is building with a small opening. Climb on up and you will find a Firefly Pendant.

 
You are now in the center of campus. There will be a group of monkeys by the football field, but they run away when you get close. Facing the statue at the center of the courtyard, to the right is Ding Hall where you will find an opening in the building exposing a stairway. Go up the flight of stairs, then jump out the window onto the roof.

Training Manual 9: Health Sterilization
Hop back in a window to find supplies and a Training Manual that upgrades your health kits to be 67% stronger.

Continue to loot the area for pills and guns parts.

 
There's also some supplies hidden in the open container in front of the building, Ding Hall.


Continue forward on the ground now, going through a tunnel to get behind the big building here.

Optional Conversation 29: When you enter the campus square and see the monkeys, Ding Hall will be on your right. If you go over in that direction and then head left, you'll pass between two buildings. The first Firefly symbol is on your left, and the symbol you want to use is straight ahead. Initiate it to talk to Ellie about the Fireflies.

Trophy Note (I want to talk about it): If you complete the game and show you only have 36 conversations (there are 37), try going back and redoing this one using the second Firefly symbol (pictured below). Some people are experiencing a problem where the trophy won't pop because there are two Firefly symbols very close to each other, but the game only recognizes the second as counting towards your conversation total.


Go further forward now, and you get stopped by another downed gate. There are two conversations to have here, one about the generator, and one about the wires on the ground.


Now, crouch through the gap and into the dorm.

Artifact 60: UEC Campus Map
Grab the Artifact on the front desk here, a map of the campus.

 
Move through the room now, grabbing all the supplies you can find along the way. Head up the stairs and into the first room on the left. Loot this room, moving through the bathroom to the next one.

Artifact 61: Student's Journal
In the desk here (in Room 202), so grab it.

 
Further down the hall you run into spores. You'll have to put on your gasmask, then drop down through the floor. Oh man, there's a lot of Clickers. You need to be stealthy here, because there is also a Bloater. You can sneak your way through killing all the Clickers easily enough, and you can sneak through the rest of the way too without causing a stir.

 
Firefly Pendant 22: Use explosives or fire to take out the Bloater, if you want to get its treasure: a Firefly Pendant.

Move down the hall now to a door that you need to force open. Once through, head up the stairs and start looting through dorm rooms again.

Artifact 62: Newspaper Clipping 
There is an Artifact on top of a mini fridge in Room 209.

 
Once you are done looting, take the door that leads outside. Go down the stairs and over to the generator on a cart. Push it to the side of the closed gate, and Joel will automatically plug it in. Turn it on so Ellie can raise the gate and continue forward.

Look for some blue dumpsters in this area for some supplies.


Hop on the horse and jump over the barrier here to move on to right outside the science lab.

 
There's no going in the front door, so loot all the medical tents outside.

Firefly Pendant 23: The farthest one away from where you entered the area from has a Firefly Pendant.

 
Now jump over this other barrier to keep moving forward. You see a big gaping hole in the side of the science building, so go try the gate. Rusted shut, dang. Let's find a way around now. Walk back to find a dumpster, then push it toward the rusted gate.

 
That worked! Let's go through the gate now. Push the dumpster over to the truck, then climb up to the truck then up further to the ledge of the building.


Science Building
Climb into the science lab now. There are lootable Things in here. Loot all the rooms, including going all the way down the hall past the bright light to find an unlockable Shiv door.

 
Training Manual 10: Molotov Deployment 
Behind the door are the Level 4 tools, a Training Manual and tons of supplies.

Before heading out, use the work bench to craft any upgrades you want. Head out the door behind the light in the hallway, then move around to a room with elevators.

 
Optional Conversation 30: Look at the clipboard on the pile of stuff here to find out you guys aren't alone in the building.

Sneak up the stairs, then go into the door that is half blocked by a table.

Artifact 63: Office Recorder
Go into the room to the left and on the bench there's an Artifact, so go listen to it.

 
The layout of this floor is very similar to the one below it, so go loot everything. Despite the ominous noise, there is nobody immediately up here.

Artifact 64: Fungal X-Rays
When ready, head to the hallway that is made to look like a tent. Move through here, and grab the Artifact on the counter.

 
When ready, open the door back here. The source of all that noise... just monkeys. Oh well.

Artifact 65: Lab Recorder
Grab the artifact on the table here and listen to it.

Firefly Pendant 24: Go to the back right corner of the room for a Firefly Pendant.

 
Move through to the next room and loot it. Now, open the door with the broken glass.

Artifact 66: Firefly's Recorder 
In the cutscene, Joel picks it up and is automatically added to your collectibles.

Well, you aren't alone anymore! You now know where you need to go, so let's leave! There's really no good way to sneak out of here, as these guys are coming for you. Fight your way through the floor, then take the stairs back down.

 
Fight through here now, and go out in the lobby of the building. Open the door here and...... oh. Oh. Oh dear. That's.... wow. Yeah. You are going to have to help Ellie get you through the building, so make sure you have your hands on the controller.

The Hunt
Artifact 67-75: No Pun Intended, No Pun Intended: Volume Two, To Get to the Other Side!, Riley's Pendant, Sam's Robot, Walkman, Switchblade, Note from Mom, Joel & Sarah Photo
These will automatically be with Ellie. Be sure to inspect each one and flip whatever ones you can. If Ellie makes a remark or comment, that is a sign it has been registered as "collected" in the game.

Note: Ellie will not comment on the three joke books or her switchblade. Just make sure to zoom in on them and they'll still be counted as having been collected.

It's winter now! As Ellie, you will need to take down the deer with your bow. Make sure you crouch as you get closer, avoiding fallen tree branches and bushes that will make noise and spook the deer. Once you land the first hit, you will be able to follow the trail of blood to the deer's next location. Land a second arrow and it will run off to the next area. After your second arrow connects, it won't be necessary to crouch anymore. Climb over the low part in the wooden fence and continue following the blood.

 
You will drop down a ledge then come across a run-down building.

Comic 10: Uncertainty 
If you go into the door to the left right after entering the building, you can find a Comic in a drawer.

 
Move forward until you are at the deer carcass to initiate a cutscene. While one of them runs back to his camp, you wait with the other. Uh oh, Clicker attack! Fight off the Infected from your position in the room.

 
You will be asked to help block one of the windows, so go help out. Eventually, you both will make a break for it. Follow your new partner out of the room and down the hallway. Take out the closest Clicker as your partner is barricading the door, then continue forward. Everything is going well until the walkway gives out.

 
Time to fight off more Infected. Sneak around taking out Clickers, or use your Bow for a ranged stealth attack. Sneak around here until you can drop below the floor. Make your way under the floor until you get to a ladder. Climb up to be reunited with your new ally. You're stuck here though, so get boosted up the side and make your way around the walkway to get to the ladder.

 
Firefly Pendant 25: There is a room up here that is along the back wall. Inside is a bunch of supplies and a Firefly Pendant.

 
Once you get to the ladder, drop it down for your pal who puts it against the other wall. Drop down, then climb the ladder up to get to the exit door.

You are now in a room and are about to be ambushed.

Optional Conversation 31: There is a body in this room. Look at it and have a conversation with David about it.

Craft as many health packs as you can and heal up, you are going to need the health. The first wave comes through the door, so throw a Molotov over there.

 
This will take out a few infected. The next batch will come in through the windows. It's your best bet to keep mobile and take them out with the hunting rifle. You will get a small break and a prompt to notice that a Bloater is coming in through the roof right in the middle. Toss a Molotov up there to set him ablaze immediately. Take him out fully from a distance with the hunting rifle.

 
Once the area is clear, follow your pal down the hallway here where Infected first came from. You will have a conversation here about Infected, and it advances to a cutscene.

Cabin Resort
Ride like the wind! You will have to fight off a few guys who jump onto your horse, but keep riding forward to get away from the house you are using as a base.

 
Eventually, you will end up back on foot. Sorry horsie. Run into the cabin ahead of you, and loot the bedrooms here. When you move into the front of the cabin, you start to hear Hunters searching for you.

 
Time to drop into stealth mode. Make good use of the arrows in this front room for a ranged stealth kill. Take out the guards right outside the house, then sneak out the door. There are guards all over the camp here, so watch where you go. 

Firefly Pendant 26: Head over to the gazebo here to snag a collectable Firefly Pendant, then move through the cabins.

 
There's some loot here as well as plenty of cover. There seems to be a decent group of guys by the restrooms, so watch out for that hotspot. You eventually need to make it to the stairs at the far end of the area. Once up here, you will have to inch your way across the broken walkway to the left, then continue forward down the cliffside trail.

 
You drop down a bit of a drop, then crawl through a pipe. You come into a clearing, so head upstairs.

Comic 11: Negentropy 
On the park bench is a collectable Comic to grab.

 
Now crawl through the second pipe ahead of you. It's blocked! Head back out and grab the dumpster behind the cage. Pull it out, and then head back through the pipe.

 
You come up on the main resort building. You can see the exit off in the distance, but don't start running for it yet. Hunters start coming out now, looking for you. Take them out, then climb on a box to drop down into the main building. You aren't alone in here, so make sure to stay as stealthy as possible.

 
This is a big building, but you are limited to only the downstairs. Make your way through the lobby until you get to the front entrance. Head out the door with the Exit sign above it.

Well, THAT didn't go according to plan. You're back as Joel now, so walk out of the basement you are in. Head outside and down the road. Sadly, you cannot loot any of these houses. Head forward until you stumble across some Hunters.

 
Take a few out, and they retreat to the back yard. Head into the back yard and into the house to find some supplies. Hop out the living room window and out to the street, and you get stopped. Watch what happens here, because it is INTENSE.

 
You are now back as Ellie outside in a blizzard. Run forward away from the man shooting at you. You see a door ahead of you. Blocked. Now try the door next to the gate. You're inside again. Move the cart in your way to crawl under the boards into the next room. You're now in the front of a pet store. You can hear Hunters outside, so stay behind cover.

 
Eventually, one enemy will enter the store. Take him out to get his gun. Make your way across the street, not down the street where everyone is heading.

 
Once in an alley, keep going down until you see a lot of mail trucks. Take out a few guards here, then head up the stairs. Move forward and you'll see a barrel with a fire in it. Directly to the left is a small hole you can crouch through. Head through here, and around to a pick-up truck. There may be another Hunter here, so watch out.

 
Continue forward through the slashed open fence. Stay along the left side of the street here until you get to an alley. There are two ways into the building here, so head in whichever way will not get you noticed by the two Hunters inside. Take them out silently, then head out the arcade's front door. There are plenty more guards outside, so make sure to move from cover to cover.

 
If you get spotted, run back to the gate blocking the end of the street, and hide. The Hunters cannot see very well through the snow. Eventually as you move forward down the street, you'll spot a building with a burning trash can here. Move past this to a street on the left. Follow the street now, until you get to another gate blocking the way. Jump up onto a dumpster, and then through the cracked open window.

 
You are now in a kitchen of some sort. It doesn't look like anyone is here or in the restaurant either. Make your way to the front door, and head outside. Ohhhh boy, our friend is back. You need to hide from him, and sneak up on him to get the keys back.

 
Also, as an added difficulty, he does not go down in one hit. After the first hit you land, he breaks out the machete, so now if you get hit once, you are dead. Keep after him, but without him seeing. Watch out for the smashed plates on the ground, as he will hear if you step on them. Once you land three hits, you both go down.

 
Artifact 76: Lake Resort Map 
Joel will automatically have this in his possession at this point.

Now you are Joel again, and back outside. You come up on a gas station/garage on the right. Head inside, and hear about four Hunters coming for you. Take them out, then continue down the road outside. There's another building you can go into straight forward.

 
It looks like a motel. Move through the bedrooms here, until you get to the back of the motel.

Training Manual 11: Smoke Shaping 
Hop out of a bathroom window and look to your left for a Shiv Door. Inside is a Training Manual and some other loot.

Now head back out. Watch out for the Hunter who is on the lookout. You can sneak into the semi trailer he is standing on without him noticing. Move past him and out the other side of the trailer. Move through the camp here until you find an alley with a burning barrel.

 
Continue forward, and Joel will automatically slip inside a building.

Artifact 77: Ellie's Backpack 
He'll find Ellie's backpack in here that is automatically added to your possession after the cutscene.

Artifact 78: Meat Ledger
To the right of the shelf is another artifact on another shelf.

 
Continue forward now, being super stealthy. Move through the rest of the butcher shop and see some horrors that weren't meant to be seen. Go out the front door to see the restaurant on fire. As Ellie again, inch forward to get to the machete. Keep going after getting kicked. Be prepared to hit Triangle.

Highway Exit
You are back as Joel, right outside of the hospital in Salt Lake City.

Optional Conversation 32: Move down the highway, talking with Ellie when you can.

Artifact 79: Family Photograph
Head into the RV to obtain a few supplies and find an Artifact.

 
Optional Conversation 33: Talk to Ellie about flying, then continue down the road.

Walk down the exit ramp.

Firefly Pendant 27: Right at the end on the left, behind a car near the barrier, is a Firefly Pendant.

 
Keep going forward down the road now. Climb from the cars up to the bus, then drop down on the other side of the wall. Head into the open building here to cut through. Head downstairs to find lots of loot.

Artifact 64: Note to Wife
Down here, on the left there is a pile of luggage and in one of the open ones is this artifact.

Look at the ladder and Joel will say something to Ellie.

 
Optional Conversation 34: Talk to Ellie about the ladder down here. Boost Ellie up, even though she's so reluctant.

She'll knock down the ladder, so pick it up and climb up. Ellie is super excited about something, so follow her down the hallway here. Keep going here, across an air bridge.

 
You see what Ellie is going on about now!

Optional Conversation 35: Walk over and pet the giraffe.

Head up the stairs and out to the roof to get a great view.

Optional Conversation 36: You can talk to Ellie up here about the giraffes.

Go into the doorway to the stairs from up here now.

 
Comic 11: Precipitate
If you head into the Men's room, you can find a Comic.

Head outside and loot the medical tents.

 
You find the Level 5 tools out here as well as a ton of supplies.

Firefly Pendant 28: Use a brick or bottle to get a Firefly Pendant hanging on a flood light behind the large tent. 

Artifact 80: Salt Lake Q.Z. Map
At the very back tent with the crafting table, you can find this artifact.

 
There is also a bench if you want to craft upgrades.

Optional Conversation 37: When ready, head out towards the dog barks. Ellie will come up and give you the picture of you and your daughter. (This is the last optional conversation).

Artifact 81: Joel & Sarah Photo 
After the interaction with Ellie, this will be added to your backpack.

Climb through a bus, then continue down the street.

Firefly Pendant 29: You will find another Firefly Pendant behind the next bus on the road into the East Tunnel.

Underground Tunnel
Head down into the tunnel, and climb up over the cars in front of you. You come up on a ton of Infected. Runners, Clickers, and even three Bloaters are all ahead of you.

 
When you can, duck into a room on the right to find a ton of supplies. There are a few infected in the tunnel -- you can take them out quietly with the flamethrower or distract them by throwing a brick or bottle. Follow the passage and once you're back in the tunnel. 

Training Manual 12: Bomb Shrapnel 
Climb up the trailer truck with a red lion on it to find a Training Manual for the nail bomb.

It is possible to sneak past the infected with little or no interaction with them. If you are feeling brave, take them out. The Bloaters tend to be close to each other, which gives you a nice opportunity to take them out at the same time. If you have three nail bombs, duck behind the small fence/barricade and safely toss the bombs at them, taking them out from afar. Kill everything else that comes running your way, then continue down the tunnel to a semi. Boost Ellie up on top of the truck so that she can knock the crate down.

 
You get to deep water, so swim under the truck. Climb up the other side and get to the ladder to drop down for Ellie.

Comic 13: Catalysis
Climb up on the air vents and go all the way down to find a Comic.

 
Drop down and over to the fence to find the door blocked. Look to the far right, there is a clicker ducked down, take him out. Now boost Ellie up over the side to open it. There's a bench here to construct more upgrades. Continue forward now. On the right is a Shiv door you can open for a ton of supplies.

 
Once ready, duck under the rubble and you find yourself in a water filled room. Dive down here to find an open door. Take a right and go through another door to resurface. Climb up to the air vents and crawl along those now. Squeeze in between the pipes and the wall to find a wood pallet to throw down to Ellie.

 
Hop down yourself, and swim Ellie across the water. She'll climb up and drop down a big ladder for you. It falls off the wall, so carry it over to the gap you can't cross and lay it down.

 
Do this by climbing back up to that ledge you were on, pick up the ladder, drop it over by the broken walkway, climb down, then lay it across the gap. You make it to an area where the water is rushing like a river. Cross the area by jumping from bus to air vent. When you fall through the bus, mash Triangle to grab onto a bar to stop yourself.

 
Keep moving forward now until oh... Ellie comes to save the day, so mash Triangle again. Shit hits the fan hardcore. Dive down and swim through the door to get to Ellie. Get to her to automatically grab onto her. Keep heading forward until you get to the surface.

The Hospital
Oh man, that's some drama. Time to fight your way to Ellie. There are tons of ways to do this. You can shoot your way through or bypass most of the Fireflies by sneaking around them. To do this, climb through windows and duck behind counters. The cones of the flashlights give you a good idea where your enemies are looking and heading. Avoid the corridor with the two stationary guards and make a wide circle around them, picking up much needed supplies on your way.

 
If you eliminate the right guy, you can get an Assault rifle. Make your way to a stairway then climb up.

Artifact 82: Surgeon's Recorder 
There's an Artifact right here on a counter.

 
Move down the hallway now, avoiding or killing guards.

FIrefly Pendant 30: There's a Shiv door over here with lots of ammo and a Firefly Pendant.

 
Artifact 83: Marlene's Recorder 1 
From the entrance by the stairwell, to the right there is a room and in there is this recorder on a desk.

 
Artifact 84: Marlene's Journal
In the large quarantine tent, inside in another artifact on the table.

Now in this section, the Fireflies are actively searching for you. Try to get by the guard watching the door when he looks away and work around the right far side of the areas. Stealthily taking out a few guards, making it to the end of the corridor shouldn't be a problem with your experience up to this point of the game.

Once through the door, Joel will barricade it. Get down the hall by the pediatrics ward. When your in the hallway, open the first door to the right.

Artifact 85: Marlene's Recorder 2
In this room on the right is this artifact on the table.

Open the door at the end of the hallway and into the operating room and grab Ellie. Run now. Run through the locker room then into the elevator. Watch what happens.

Epilogue
Simply follow Joel. Once you pass the barbed wire, head to your right, away from Joel's path.

Comic 14: Singularity
There you will find a pickup truck along a rock wall. The last Artifact of the game is in the driver's seat of the truck...



