Thomas Was Alone
https://portforward.com/games/walkthroughs/Thomas-Was-Alone/Text-Only-Guide.htm

Spawn



0.1 Move Thomas into the rectangle 

0.2 Go to the right and fall down the cliff. Keep going down, you'll have to move to the left and right 

then get to the white rectangle, the exit. 

0.3 Keep going to the right 

and jump over the obstacles 

until you get to the end of the level. 

0.4 Jump over to the end. 

If you have problems, try to get close to the edge and hold your jump button to increase the duration in mid air. 

0.5 Move to the right 

and don't stop, the blocks will fall down 

and enter the exit. 

0.6 Jump up the stairs 

then jump to the small projections, if you have trouble doing so go close to the edges and jump from there 

after that you enter the exit. 

0.7 The exit is at the top of the level, 

you just keep jumping up 

and from the left to the right. 

Continue going up, 

jump over these small stairs 

and get to the exit. 

0.8 The water kills Thomas so don't fall into it. 

Leap to the right and get from platform to platform. 

The zone with circular directed arrows is your spawn point when you crossed it. 

Jump over the platforms and get to the exit. 

0.9 Move to the left, then jump up to the blocks like in the picture shown. 

Keep going up and jump to the block shown in the picture once again. 

Jump to the left, to the blocks where 3 blocks are close to each other. From there jump to the right. 

Jump up 

and leap to the left. 

Then leap to the one in the disatnce, remember to stand close to the edge and holding the jump button if you have trouble of leaping there. 

Jump up 

and continue jumping to the right 

until you reach the exit. 

0.10 Go to the right and leap over to the platforms. 

After that the ground will be pushed up and down 

Just keep going and jumping to the right. 

Continue going and jumping to the right 

Then enter the exit. 

Array



1.1 You now have to control Thomas (red rectangle) and Chris (orange square). To switch between them, press Q or E or the number keys on the keyboard. At the right bottom is a colour coding, in this case T 

Jump with Thomas over the block 

and help Chris 

to get to his exit. 

1.2 Start with Chris, jump over the water pools 

to the staircase 

after that leave Chris there and switch to Thomas. 

Now get Thomas there, just jump 

depending on where you are, to the left or right 

and keep going up 

until you reach 

the top. Now go with Thomas to the left 

and boost Chris up. 

Now move Chris to the right 

and go down until you reach the exit. 

Switch to Thomas, jump over the water pools and get to the exit. 

1.3 Move Chris to the right 

and activate the button by jumping on it. 

Now just boost Chris with Thomas 

and keep doing it the same way 

til you can reach the exit. 

1.4 Move Thomas and Chris to the right 

and use Chris 

to help Thomas so Thomas can get to the button. 

Once you did that the ground will be pulled back, move down. 

After that both don't need the help from the other, 

so move Thomas to the left. 

Jump from block 

to block with Thomas 

and get to the exit 

Now move Chris to the right 

and do the same as Thomas 

til you get to the exit. 

1.5 Move Thomas to the right 

and leap over to the platform to activate the button. 

The platform will then start moving, switch to Chris and jump with him onto the platform. 

Then get Chris and Thomas over the water, 

after that move Thomas close to the edge so Chris can jump on him. 

Then get Chris over the hole, at this point Chris can get to the exit by himself. 

Jump over to the platforms 

and the rest is just moving 

and jumping to the right. 

Align Chris to the exit afterwards. 

Jump up the staircase with Thomas 

and wait for the platform to get closer until it stands still. 

Jump on it and wait til it moves to the right. 

You can jump on the other platform or jump straight to the respawn zone then. 

These platforms are larger, but move a bit faster so be patient and jump on it when it stands still. 

Leap to the next one 

and leap back to firm ground. 

Now just get down and move Thomas to the exit. 

1.6 Here is our 3rd character, John (yellow big rectangle). He can jump very high and very far, but his size has its disadvantages. In this level you have to align them like the exit. 

Move Thomas so Chris can use him as a staircase 

so Chris can get up on John. 

Now move Chris SLIGHTLY to the right so there is a bit space. 

Jump with Thomas on John so Chris and Thomas are on John at the same time 

and now jump with Chris on top of Thomas. 

After that switch to John and move him, Thomas and Chris will stay in the same position. 

1.7 Move John to the right 

into the hole in the ground. 

Now move Thomas and Chris to the right, use Thomas as a staircase to get Chris over 

and align them to the exit. 

Now just jump with John out and go to the left 

to the exit. 

1.8 Jump with John to the left 

and keep going to the left over the water 

to the stairs 

to get to the button. 

Once you activated it, 

stairs and 

platforms will appear. 

"Move Thomas and Chris over to the stairs. 

Now climb the stairs with Thomas and Chris 

and boost Chris with Thomas' help whenever he can't climb the staircaise by himself. 

Repeat that 

multiple times until 

Thomas, Chris and John are at the top. Then fall down the deep hole with all of them. 

Jump and move John to the right 

Now move Thomas and John down the hole, 

Move Thomas and Chris to the right 

and use Thomas to boost Chris. 

After that use Thomas so Chris can jump into the hole 

and move through it towards the exit. 

Now use John to boost Thomas up 

and go with all of them to the exit. 

1.9 Move John to the right 

"and jump with him on top of Thomas. 

Activate the button. 

Now gaps will open, 

let John fall down 

and get Chris and Thomas through the other gap. 

Jump with Chris on Thomas 

then on John 

Move John and Chris so there will be space for Thomas to jump on John 

And jump with Chris to Thomas to the other side. 

Boost Chris up on top of Thomas 

and repeat that. 

Now get Thomas on top of John, you can now use Thomas and John as a platform, so you jump with Chris onto Thomas and then to the right or you can move John to the very left of the hole with Thomas on top of him, move Chris on Thomas and then move John to the very right of the hole so Chris can make that jump. 

Use the "standard" staircase with Thomas and John to get Chris up 

and then jump with Thomasto get Chris up. 

Now create the staircase once again and wait for the platform to come down 

so Chris can leap on it. 

now you just have to get Thomas and John on the platform, create a staircase again 

and wait for the platform to reach its maximum height 

so Chris can jump from one platform to the other one. 

Now move Chris up 

and get John and Thomas up there too. It shouldn't be too hard since John and Thomas have a decent jump height. 

Create a staircase and get Chris up. 

Get Thomas to boost Chris 

and get Thomas and John up 

make a staircase with John and Thomas once again. 

Jump up with Chris 

and get Chris on top of Thomas. 

Use John and Chris will be able 

to leap and move to the exit. 

Do the same with Thomas and John. 

1.10 Leave out Thomas for now, the hardest part is probably getting Chris to the other side. 

Move John to the right 

and align him as close as possible to the ledge. 

Now leap with Chris on top of John 

and move John close to the platform. 

Jump with Chris onto the platform and move him close to the edge, repeat that until Chris has crossed all platforms.

Now that Chris is through, the level is mostly done. 

Move Chris through the hole down 

and jump to the left. 

Finally, get Chris to the exit. 

Switch to Thomas. 

Jump with Thomas on John, 

then jump on the platform. 

Leap with Thomas to right side 

and now to the left side. Make sure that John and Chris are aligned to the exits. 

If you did that, just let Thomas fall down to get to the next level. 

Origin



2.1 A new character! Claire (blue) is a big square, but she has an interesting mechanic. 

Claire will just fall down 

and that continues 

until the entire ground is gone. 

She can swim! After that just wait a moment and the exit will spawn in the middle 

as shown here. 

2.2 You control John and Claire. 

Jump with Claire onto the block. 

Position John close to Claire. 

Leap with Claire on top of John. 

Move John to the right so Claire can jump up. 

Jump with Claire up. 

Now jump with John on top of Claire. 

Move Claire to the right, she can't fall into the water. 

To finish the level get John into the gap and Claire to the fitting exit. 

2.3 In this level you have to get the quadrangles on one site to the other site. 

Get Claire into the water. 

Swim Claire close to the edge. You can just move John as he has Thomas and Chris on top of him. 

Move the three to the left with Claire's help. 

Set them on the exit. 

Switch back to Claire 

and get her to the exit. 

2.4 This level contains only Claire and Thomas. 

The water will rise, get Claire to the right 

so Thomas can quickly jump up and activate the button. 

After pressing the button the water will rise much faster than before. Get Thomas quickly on top of Claire 

and switch back to Claire. Now move Claire to the right 

then til you got past the first hurdle. 

Once you are past it, move to the left. 

Get to the middle between the blocks 

and go slighty right after that. 

Then swim to the left again 

Once you are at the top, switch to Thomas and finish the level. 

2.5 Start with John. 

Put him into the gap and start with Chris to climb up. After that do the same with Claire. 

Now do the same for the other stairs until you are at the top. 

Get on the "elevator" similar block 

and move them all out. Align Chris to his exit 

and jump with John on Claire while Claire is in the water. 

Move Claire to the right and 

finish the level. If John is blocking Claire like here, just jump over Claire. 

2.6 The characters in this level are Thomas, Chris, John and Claire. 

Move Thomas next to John and use him to boost Claire over John. 

Swim with Claire to the left 

and press the button. The water wil now sink. 

The water will not be completely gone, so swim Claire to the right again. 

Now get the others on Claire (how you do it does not matter). 

Move Claire to the left 

and build a staircase for Chris. 

Do it once more 

and you can get Thomas, Chris and John to their exits. 

Finally, get Claire to the right again to finish the level. 

2.7 You have Thomas, John and Claire. 

Get Thomas and John on Claire 

and move them close to the platform. 

Swim Claire to the right side of the platform and repeat that until you got to the other side. 

Now just move all of them 

down the hole. 

You need to go left with all of them, all of them can go for themselves to the exits. 

Now get Thomas and John to the exits on the very left. 

2.8 You have Thomas, John and Claire. 

You don't need to use Claire to get Thomas and John to the other side yet as their jumping height and the moving platforms and get them there. 

Now just move all of them to the right, if you use platforms or Claire doesn't matter. 

Now do the same 

til you get to the 

respawn zone. 

Get Thomas and John on Claire 

and move them to the right. 

When they are on the side, there will be 2 platforms. 

John can jump over the water. 

Thomas can use the platforms. 

The same goes for Claire. 

Get Thomas and John on top of Claire and finish the level. 

2.9 Move Claire to the right 

and jump up, then go to the right again. 

Leap over the spikes to the other side, if you have problems remember that only a few pixels need to be on the ground so you can put the most part of Claire's square over the edge. 

Climb these stairs. 

and jump on the platform when it's low. 

Jump up 

through the respawn zone 

Now you have to fall without going to the left and right, the new respawn zone should help you if you have trouble falling down without dying to the spikes. 

At the end, go to the exit. 

2.10 This level contains Claire and Thomas, it is the exact same level, but now you have to get Thomas and Claire through. 

Progress through the level like you did with Claire and do the same with Thomas. 

Just get Thomas on top of Claire and get Thomas to the left. 

Just fall down and enter the exits. 

Associations



3.1 You have a new character, Laura. Just use Chris and Laura to activate the button, so the other one can progress and activate the next button. 

They don't interact so just keep going to the right. 

Then finish the level. 

3.2 You have Chris and Laura. 

Move Laura to her exit 

and jump with Chris on top of Laura, he will now bounce high. Just get him under the exit and finish the level. 

3.3 You have Chris and Laura. 

Move Laura to the right and jump with Chris on Laura, he now can reach and activate the button. 

It will go down and you'll be able to get further to the right with Laura. Repeat and get up 

to press the next button. 

The platform will lower and you can align Laura to her exit. Then jump with Chris on Laura once again and get Chris to his exit. 

3.4 There is Chris and Laura. 

Jump with Chris up and move Laura to the gap so Chris can use it to get up. 

Now jump up with Laura 

and jump with Chris through the hole and activate the button. 

Move Laura to the right and wait for the platform, after that jump on the platform with Laura 

and get up. 

Move Chris to the right 

and use Laura to help Chris get to the higher block. 

Finally, enter the exits. 

3.5. The characters are Chris and Laura. 

Move both to the right 

and use Chris to boost Laura up. 

Now jump with Chris from block to block 

Laura can just walk over them. 

Go to the right and move to the exits. Place Laura first and then jump with Chris on top of Laura to finish the level. 

3.6 You've got Chris, Laura, Thomas and John. 

Use John to activate the button. The other 3 will now fall down. 

"Switch to Thomas 

and activate the next button. 

Switch to Chris 

and activate the button. 

Get back to Chris once more 

and activate the button on the left. 

Finish the level, start with John. 

3.7 There is Chris, Laura and John. 

Move Laura to the right 

and jump on Laura to activate the button. 

Repeat that until every button is activated. 

Switch to Chris 

and get him to the exit. 

Move Laura and John to the right, then use John to carry Laura to the exit. 

Then get John to his exit. 

3.8 The characters for this level are Chris, Laura, Thomas and John. 

Move every character to this position. 

And jump to the other platform when they are on the same level. 

And leap to the left once more. 

Now you can reach the top, repeat that with every other character. 

Create a staircase and get every character up in this order: Laura, Chris, Thomas, John. Thomas and John are able to get up without help though. 

Use John to jump up to the platform and activate the button. 

Now leap all of them to the right. 

After you've done that 

Align them correctly, it might take a while until they are all in the exit at the same time. 

3.9 You have Chris, Laura, Thomas, John and Claire. 

Switch to Thomas and activate the button. 

Leap with Thomas back on top of Claire quickly or he will drown. 

Boost Chris up on Thomas and jump on Laura so he can reach the next button. 

Now get Laura and Chris on Claire. 

Switch to John 

and jump up to activate the button. 

The water will rise, now you have to get John, Thomas and Chris to the higher position. 

Put Chris on John with Thomas' help and put Laura on Claire while Claire is in the water. Jump out of the water with Claire and Laura should stay on top of Claire. 

Just jump with Chris 

and Thomas up on Laura to get up. 

In the end, move Claire and Laura to the left to their exits. 

3.10 There is Chris, Laura, Thomas, John and Claire. 

Activate the button. 

Boost Laura up to the right platform with Thomas' help, watch out for the spiky block. 

Jump with Chris onto Laura 

And leap with Chris towards the exit. 

Jump with John, he doesn't need any platforms. Move Laura so Claire can get on the platform. 

Align her to the exit then. 

Use Thomas to boost Laura up the left platform, watchout for the spikes. 

After that get Laura to her exit. 

Finally, jump with Thomas to the top using the platforms and finish the level. 

Purge



4.1 Activate the orange button using Chris on Laura. 

Activate the yellow button by jumping with John on it. 

Use Laura to get Claire up 

and activate the blue button. 

Move Thomas up to activate the red button. 

Build a staircase to get Laura up 

And activate the pink button. 

Start with Thomas 

follow up with Laura 

continue with Claire, 

then John and last but not least, Chris. 

4.2 You have Chris, Laura, Thomas, John and Claire. 

Activate the buttin with Chris. 

Platforms will now appear on the left side, jump those up with John. 

Activate the button 

Get Chris out of the hole and put John into it. Now jump with Chris on top of john to activate the button 

and align them to their exit. 

Boost Laura to the right with the help of Thomas, then move Claire close to Laura. 

Jump with Laura onto Claire and jump with Thomas on Laura to reach the red button. 

Move Claire to the left, then move Laura next to the wall. Let Thomas activate the button once again 

and finish the level. 

4.3 Thomas is gone, leaving you Chris, Laura, John and Claire. 

Jump with Claire on Laura to get up 

and leap over to the button on the right. 

After activating the button, you can now move Laura to the left to help John get up to the platform. 

Let John fall down. 

Use Laura to jump with Chris up. 

Switch places with John. 

Now jump from the higher position on top of John 

and jump with Chris into the maze-like structure. 

At the top, jump into the gap to the exit. 

Align Laura to her exit 

and jump up with John to the top right to get to his exit. 

4.4 You play Chris and you will continue to fall down. 

Press left and right to avoid spikes. There are plenty of respawn zones and Chris doesn't fall down fast. 

Stay around the middle and move slightly to the left and to the right side. 

Finish the level. 

4.5 There is Laura, John and Claire. 

Get Laura on the staircase on the right side. 

Jump with her on Claire, then move Claire to the left and jump with John on Laura 

to activate the button. 

Leap with Laura to the left edge 

Move Claire on top of John 

and jump with Claire on Laura to reach the button. 

Claire will probably die because of the spike wall moving from right to left, but she will respawn. 

Get Claire up there again and activate the next button. 

Now a spike wall will fall down, on top of it should be a button in John's reach. 

Climb the stairs with John's enourmous jump height 

And finish the level by moving Laura to the right. 

4.6 You have Laura, John and Claire. 

Activate the button using John. 

Put claire in the gap, then boost John to the button. 

Get Claire into the water and place Laura and John on top of her. 

Use Laura to get John to his exit. 

Jump with Claire over Laura to the other side 

and put Laura on top of Claire once again. 

4.7 The characters are John and Claire. 

Activate the blue button on the right. 

Now jump to the left and activate that button. 

Jump with Claire to activate the next one. 

Jump with John to reach the next button. 

Swim against the blue button on the right. 

Now move Claire to the left so John can activate it. 

Jump with John to activate this one. 

Jump on the block in the air and jump to the left to get the next button. 

Swim to the left with Claire 

and finish the level. 

4.8 You have John and Claire. You have to be very fast to finish this level so don't switch to often because the spike wall on the left will start moving towards the right. 

Start with getting Claire to the other side of the hole. 

Go to the right with Claire 

until you reach the 3rd block. 

Switch to John and jump to the right. 

Switch to Claire and 

move her to the right. 

After that jump with John to the higher block 

and fall down on Claire. 

The spike wall will stop at this point, get them both safely to the exit. 

4.9 The only one left now is John. The water will rise so keep on going forward. 

Move up to the right and then to the left. 

Now leap to the right side, use the smaller block in the air to get to the block at the very right. 

Now go up and leap to the left again, make sure to hold the JUMP key. 

Go up the stairs and then move to the left 

after that go up to the exit. 

4.10 John is alone once again. 

Jump up to the left block 

and after that on the right one when it's close. 

Now jump onto the higher located block with spikes on the right. 

Get to the platform moving up and down on the left, 

to the small block on the wall 

and on top of the other platform moving up and down. 

Wait for the spikes to go up, then run through it and reach the respawn zone. 

Fall down when the spikes move away from the wall. 

Jump on the block to the right when it's down. 

Jump again to the right 

and leap to the left. Spikes will go down at this position so get close to the edge 

and jump to the right and back to the left 

so you are on top of the moving spike platform. 

Wait til the platform reaches its max. height 

And jump, don't be afraid that it will move away since this is a very difficult jump. 

If you manage it, stay calm and don't fall down. 

Get to the exit and finish the level. 

Invert



5.1 A new character! This is James, he is special in that regard that he is upside down; the "floor" is his "ceiling" and vice versa. Otherwise he is exactly the same as Thomas. 

Move to the right 

and jump on these small blocks to get over to the other side. 

Keep on going towards the right side of the screen. 

This level has the purpose of the player getting a feeling for the inverted James. 

Continue going to the right and move through the respawn zone. 

Avoid the spikes and get to the boxes, jump carefully 

and you will reach the end. 

5.2 There is only James. 

Activate the button to the right and stand still. 

The block will now move and wait until it stops. 

Press the button which appeared on the right side 

and get back on the block, now a white button will appear on the top of it. 

Activate it 

and get onto the block quickly because it will not come back. 

The block will move to the left, wait for it to stand still 

and hit the next button. 

Get on the bottom of the block again and wait 

until you can enter the exit. 

5.3 James will fall down to the ceiling. 

The platforms will move up and down to push James into the spikes. The 1st one is easy, just go when it allows James to. 

The same goes for the 2nd. 

The 3rd is a bit more difficult, you have to jump over it when it moves up, leaving you more time to pass it. 

After that finish the level. 

5.4 You have James and Thomas, but Thomas doesn't play a big role in this level. 

You have to get James down by using the small projections. 

It might take some time and if you have trouble doing so, try to start with James from the edges. 

Once you've done that, enter the exit with James 

and Thomas. 

5.5 There is James and Thomas. 

Activate the button with James, after that jump with Thomas up the staircase 

to activate the next button. 

Then jump with James down the staircase to activate the button once again 

and finish the level. 

5.6 James and Thomas are in this level. 

Move James to the exit, then get Thomas on top of the same block. 

Now move James so Thomas will stand on James and vice versa. 

Jump with Thomas several times to get up the next block. 

Make them stand against each other once more 

and move to the left, move slightly with Thomas, switch to James and repeat that until you are close enough to the exit. 

Finally, move James to his exit. 

5.7 Thomas and James don't require to work together in this level. 

Just jump and move to the left with both characters since both sides are the same, you play the level, once with Thomas and inverted with James. 

Keep on progressing through and leap to the moving block to progress. 

Get through the respawn zone, go to the left 

and finish the level. 

5.8 The characters of this level are Thomas and James. 

Move Thomas up 

until he can't get to the top anymore. 

Get James up by using the platform on the left, when he's at the top 

jump down to Thomas 

and jump with Thomas on top of James so they should stand against each other. 


And jump with Thomas so James will "fall" up, putting Thomas in a higher position. 

Do that once more 

to get both of them up. 

After you've done that, move to the right through the respawn zone and make them stand against each other. 

Then jump with James to go down, then move to the right 

and progress with both of them. 

Let Thomas stand against James 

and jump with James to get him down. 

After that you should be able to finish the level. 

5.9 James and Thomas don't need to work together. 

You can move Thomas through the 1st one, 

but James has to jump over the 2nd spike block. 

Avoid the the spike blocks and get to the respawn zone. 

Jump between those spikes when there is an opening, 

progress further to the left 

amd enter the exits. 

5.10 There is James and Thomas. Move them to the projection on the left. 

Arrange them and 

move to the right, once you see the respawn zone 

jump with James a couple times to get to the same height. 

Move through it and then jump with Thomas to get higher 

to reach the exits. 

Itterate



6.1 Thomas, James and Sarah. 

Activate the button in the middle with Sarah. 

and then move Thomas to the left, James to the right and finally Sarah into her exit. 

6.2 You only control Sarah, 

move her to the buttons and activate them. 

Activate the next button, the light will highlight their vertical position. 

Continue activation every button 

Use the small block on the bottom left to reach this one. 

Jump onto that one 

and enter the appearing exit. 

6.3 Thomas, James and Sarah. 

Move Thomas up the staircase into his exit. 

Switch to James and activate the button 

and finish the level. 

6.4 Only Sarah is in this level. 

Get her up to the top, the platforms will move completely to the left and right so be sure to use the double jump. 

Keep going higher 

and higher 

til the exit is in Sarah's reach. 

6.5 Thomas, James and Sarah. 

Move Sarah through the small spike gap. 

Activate the button, then you can move James 

to his exit on the left 

and Thomas to the right. 

6.6 Thomas, James and Sarah. 

Start with Sarah by getting up, use the double jump. 

Activate the button, then switch to James. 

Move James to the right 

and then jump up to get to the green button. Then James will be able to reach his exit on the right 

and Thomas can go up to his exit to finish the level. 

6.7 There is Thomas, James and Sarah. 

Move Sarah to the right to her exit. 

Move James from the left to the right so Thomas can jump on him 

and move with both of them into the exit. 

6.8 There is Thomas and Sarah. 

Move Sarah from the left to the right, use the double jump to reach the other side. 

Align her to the exit. 

Now move to the left and jump up the projections 

After that you can jump with Thomas into the light and finish the level. 

6.9 There is now Thomas, James and Sarah. 

Activate the right top purple button with Sarah. 

Now activate the 2nd purple button. 

Activate both red buttons with Thomas 

since they'll be in his range. 

Finally, activate the green button, 

move Thomas and Sarah to the left 

and James to the right to finish the level. 

6.10 Thomas, James and Sarah. The first button should be activated automatically if you don't move Thomas. 

Now activate the purple button on the right with Sarah. 

Activate the green button 

and then the button on the right with Thomas. 

Finally, use Sarah to boos Thomas and activate the last button 

to finish the level. 

Design



7.1 Activate the red button on the left using Thomas. 

Boost Thomas with Claire to activate the 2nd red button. 

Use Laura to help Claire activating the blue button. 

Then use John to activate the yellow button. 

Put Laura on top of Claire so Chris can activate the orange button 

and align them according to the exits. 

7.2 You have all characters: Sarah, James, Thomas, Laura, John, Chris and Claire. The exits will move periodically between 2 positions. 

Switch to Sarah 

and get to her position. 

Align James to this position. 

Put Laura on top of Chris and jump with Claire onto Laura, she should now reach her position 

Use Chris and Laura so Thomas can jump on the small block 

To get to his exit. 

Put Laura in the right corner, Chris into the left and 

in the end it should look like this. 

7.3 You have Claire, John and Sarah. 

Move Claire to the left 

and use Sarah to activate the button. 

Now put John on top of Sarah and jump into the gap. 

Move Claire to the left and get John back on top of Claire. 

Use Sarah to boost John up the block 

and get all of them through the respawn zone. 

Move them into the water 

And jump with Sarah to activate the button on the left. 

Now move them into the exits. 

7.4 There is Thomas, Chris and Sarah. 

Move the white square with Thomas up the stairs 

and put it into the fitting panel. 

Progress through and use Sarah to get the square on the other side. 

Activate it with Sarah's double jump 

and finish the level. 

7.5 You have all characters in this level. 

Push with James the white square to the right. 

Use Sarah to activate the button above it. 

Align James to his exit. 

Move Sarah onto her exit and use Chris to put the square on the panel. 

Activate the next button with Claire 

and you should be able to align everyone to their exits. 

7.6 You've got Laura and Sarah. 

Activate the 1st 

and 2nd button using Sarah on Laura. 

Progress by using Laura to help Sarah get over the obstacles, then activate the next button 

Jump with Sarah to the high position 

and activate the button so Laura can progress. 

Keep going to the right and finish the level. 

7.7 This level is one of the easiest. Just get everyone to their exits 

and complete the level. 

7.8 You have Sarah, John and James. 

Move the white square 

and get it over the obstacles. 

Push it onto the panel 

and activate the button. 

Switch to John 

and move the white square to the right. 

Move it with James to the right when James is in reach of it 

and push it onto the panel. 

Now finish the level; enter James exit, 

John's exit 

and Sarah's exit. 

7.9 You have all characters. 

Start with Claire and activate the button. 

Activate the one on the left with Thomas. 

Move James towards the left green button and activate it. 

Put James into the gap so Claire can activate the 2nd blue button. 

Move her to the left. 

Move Thomas and James to their exits 

and move Claire to the right into the exit. 

Align John and Chris 

and finally double jump with Sarah 

to complete the level. 

7.10 Again all characters are in this level. 

Start with moving up Thomas 

followed by James, Sarah and Chris. Launch Claire on Laura to get her up 

and then use Chris to get Laura up. 

Switch to Claire and move her to the right. 

Continue to the right 

and let her fall into the water. 

Get all of them to the other side. 

Move all of them to the right 

and align them to their exit. To make it easier, start with Thomas, then Chris, Sarah, Claire, Laura and John, James can do the entire level by himself. 

Generation



8.1 This character is Grey. 

Move with Grey to the left. 

Start going to up. 

Go to the left once you are at the top and enter the respawn zone. 

Jump over the water and continue to go to the right. 

Once you go into the blue dashed lines, you will see that Grey has 2 blue lines. 

With those, he can swim in water. 

Swim to the right and enter the exit. 

8.2 There are 2 new characters. Sam (dark grey rectangle) and Jo (light grey square). 

Boost Sam with Jo's help to the platform and go to the right with Sam. 

Jump with Sam into the blue dashed lines 

and activate the button on the very right of the level. 

Jump back with Sam and boost Jo. 

Move Jo to the right 

jump with her into the blue dashed lines 

and get her to the exit. 

Align Sam to the exit to finish the level. 

8.3 You play Grey, but in this level he is inverted just likes James. 

Keep falling to the top 

Avoid the spikes and progress through the level. 

Continue and wait for the platform to progress. 

Go on the 2nd platform and enter the next respawn zone. 

Jump to the left, go to the right and complete the level. 

8.4 It's Jo and Sam again. 

Leap with Sam to the left 

and back to the right. 

Sam has now the properties of Laura and Jo can jump on top of Sam to go to the left side. 

Boost Jo with Sam into the blue dashed lines 

and jump with Sam into the blue dashed lines once again 

so both can swim over to the left. 

Enter with both the respawn zone. 

Now switch to Sam and go back. Jump into the pink dashed lines and suicide in the water, 

you will respawn in the respawn zone and keep your colouring. 

Place Jo on the edge and boost Sam so Sam can make the jump to the other side. 

Now align Sam to his exit and jump with Jo on him to finish the level. 

8.5 You play Paul. 

Leap over the platforms to the right. 

Jump up the staircase and fall down into the hole. 

After going through the respawn zone, jump to the left. 

Then jump again into the blue dashed lines 

to be able to swim. Swim to the left 

and go down. 

Enter the exit and finish the level. 

8.6 The characters of this level are Grey and Paul. 

Jump with Grey up to get the pink colouring. 

Go up through the gap. 

Now move to the right 

and activate the button. 

Jump with Paul on top of Grey 

so Paul will be able to reach his exit. 

Jump up with Grey 

and enter his exit to complete this level. 

8.7 This level contains Sam and Jo. 

Boost Sam to colour Sam. 

Boost Jo on top of Sam so Jo gets the same colouring. 

Boost Sam on top of Jo to the right sight 

so he can swim. 

Now transport Jo with Sam's swimming ability over the water into the respawn zone. 

Boost Jo so Jo can swim to the right side, 

Sam can jump by himself into the blue dashed areas. 

Once both are on the other side, activate the button by jumping with Sam on Jo. 

Now boost Jo through the newly opened gap 

and jump with Sam through it to complete the level. 

8.8 Grey is the only character in this level. 

Jump with him up, once you reach the purple dashed lines, he will get Sarah's ability: double jumps. 

Continue going up. 

Jump up through the blue dashed lines and through the respawn zone. 

Swim to the right 

and get on the platform with the pink dashed lines. 

Jump into the purple dashed lines 

and jump as soon as possible again once you are coloured purple. Land on the small spot on the right 

and double jump from there to the exit on the top right. 

8.9 The character in this level is Paul. 

Go to the left and jump from here 

to the left. 

Continue going towards the left 

then climb up the stairs and jump from the 2 small blocks in the air into the blue dashed area. 

Now get in the water and swim to the right. 

Climb up those blocks 

and climb up. 

Fall down into the purple dashed lines 

and jump immeadiately to the right once Paul is purple. 

Jump to the exit. 

8.10 You have Grey, Jo and Sam. 

Boost Grey on top of Sam 

and jump to the left once Grey is purple. 

Jump to the right with Grey 

and over to the left side. 

Fall down and activate the button. 

Jump back with Grey 

to Sam and Jo. 

Switch to Jo to activate the button 

Align Sam to his exit 

and jump with Grey on Sam, then into his exit. 

Y+1, X+1



9.1 The "new" character, Team Jump. they're pretty much 5 small grey squares with a great jumping height. 

Make a tower with all 5 of them, 

3 that tower can reach the next stage. Make a smaller tower 

and get one of them up. 

Jump with him to the right 

and activate the button. 

Get all 5 to the right platform. 

Move them to the next platform. 

Jump to the right and use 2 of them to activate the button. 

Move all of them to the right. 

And align all of them to the exit. 

9.2 You have Paul and Team Jump. 

Move them all to the left, you can leave from Team Jump on the exit. 

Align one to the exit. Jump with one from Team Jump into the grey dashed field next to the block. 

He will get launched up high enough to activate the button. Align him to the exit afterwards. 

Get with the remaining members of Team Jump to the left. 

Align one there to the exit. 

Boost Paul on that one to jump over the grey dashed field 

and align Paul to his exit. 

Finally, the last exit is at the beginning of the level. 

9.3 You play Grey, Jo and Sam. 

Jump with Grey into the purple dashed area 

Now switch to Jo. 

and wait with Jo in the small gap. 

Once the L-shaped platform comes down, move onto it with Jo. 

Move Grey down 

and move Sam up. 

Jump with Jo on Sam to get her 

into the purple dashed field. 

You can suicide Grey in the water so he can respawn at the top. 

Jump with Sam and Jo up. 

Arrange them like this so Jo can jump on Sam 

and get to the top. Go with her into the respawn zone. 

Do the same with Sam and Grey. Get into the blue field 

and get past the grey dashed areas. These will move so just wait and get past them. 

Repeat that for Jo 

and Sam. 

Finally, complete the level. 

9.4 You play Team Jump and Paul. 

Get everyone down into the hole. 

Once a block touches those green dashed lines, they'll be inverted like James. 

Clean one member of Team Jump in the grey dashed field and align him to the exit. 

For the remaining characters, move them straight through the grey field, they'll get to the other side. 

Clean the remaining 4 members of Team Jump in the grey dashed field on the top right 

To complete the level, move Paul into the grey dashed field and all with him into his exit. 

9.5 The characters of this level are Grey, Jo and Sam. 

Jump on this block to get over the large one. 

Then move into the respawn zone, leave him there. 

Do the same with Sam. 

Jo is different, she can just get on the block by the counterforce of falling up. 

Move Sam to the right on the bottom of the large block. 

Get Grey to the left, 

use the small block to jump on the buttom of the slightly larger block 

and jump from the slightly larger block to the right. 

Make Jo fall from this position 

and she can get on to the block. Leap to the larger block after that. 

Now move all of them to the right, Sam has to be normal 

while Sam and Grey have to be inverted to reach their exit. 

9.6 This level contains Paul, Team Jump, Sam and Jo. 

Move the inverted 4 members of Team Jump and inverted Paul to the top left through the obstacles into the purple dashed fields. 

Move them to the left, leave one between the purple and green dashed fields so he will fall up and down the whole time. 

Get Paul over the green dashed fields by double jumping over them. 

Now move Paul down and to the right 

then into the grey dashed fields. 

Invert Paul again 

and fall up, stay on the right side with Paul 

after that stay on the left side so Paul stays inverted. 

Align him to his exit. 

Move the 2 members of Team Jump over the green dashed area and go down. 

Invert them and align them to their exit. 

Boost Jo on Sam and keep Grey next to Sam. 

Then get both, Sam and Jo, on Grey. 

Jump with Jo on top of Sam and into the purple dashed field. 

Get everyone up and build another staircase. 

Jump with them into the green dashed field 

Through the purple dashed ones 

Boost Jo on Grey to get her up 

and get her up through the room full of small blocks. 

Do the same with Sam 

and Grey. 

Build a staircase, get Jo 

Grey and Sam up. 

Boost up Jo again 

and once again to Jo up. 

Align Sam and Jo to their exits 

and move Grey down, avoid the green dashed fields 

and complete the level. 

9.7 The characters in this level are Grey, Sam and Jo. 

Build stairs so Jo can get over the 1st green dashed field. After that get Grey and Sam over the field. 

Create another staircase, but this one has to be higher. Once you did that, jump in that order over the 2nd green dashed field: Jo, Sam, Grey. 

Now move all of them to the left. 

Boost Jo on top of Grey, then pass through it. Fall up into the grey dashed ones, then fall down and move to the left slightly right under the next grey dashed field. 

Do the same with Grey and Sam until all of them are on the other side. 

Jump with them into the green dashed fields and move left at the same time. 

Then climb up the upside down stairs and move to the left. 

Get Jo to the left by falling up and down while moving left. 

Move Sam into the gap 

go left 

and align him to the exit. 

Do the same with Jo. 

Switch to Grey and jump over the grey dashed fields while he's inverted. 

Align him onto the exit and finish the level. 

9.8 You will play Team Jump and Paul. In this level the green and grey dashed fields will come from the bottom and move to the top. 

Leave him when he's not. 

Switch to Paul when he's inverted once again 

and place him into the corner. 

Team Jump doesn't need to be inverted, so just progress through the level 

and jump with them up to the exit. 

You might have to wait if it looks like this but once the wave of grey dashed fields passes by 

You'll complete the level. 

9.9 The characters in this level are Grey, Jo, Sam and Paul. 

The elevator like gaps allow you to colour the characters as you like. Paul should be coloured pink already, so coulour Sam pink. 

Use Sam to boost Paul up the staircase. 

Once he's at the top, leave him there. 

Colour Grey pink, Sam blue and Jo purple. Once you've done that, 

carry Jo over the water with Sam's help. 

Go up the stairs, Jo's double jump is high enough to climb the stairs without boosting. 

Go back with Sam and carry Grey over the water. 

Double jump with Jo into the lower gap, use Grey's bouncing state to boost Sam 

into the gap. 

Jump over the platforms to the exit at the top right and 

align Sam and Jo to them. 

You can kill Grey in the water, the respawn zone is right next to it. 

Colour him purple 

and go up the left staircase. 

Bounce on Paul and use the double jump to get over the wall. 

Move them into their exits and complete the level. 

9.10 The final level. You'll play Sam and Jo. Sam has a double jump while Jo is inverted. 

Get both up 

and move to the right. Jo has to jump on those smaller blocks to get further. 

Fall up with Jo, go towards the top right of the level. 

You'll see an entrance. 

Get Sam up to the top right to, just keep in mind you have to double jump 

Keep on jumping towards the top right 

and get into the small entrance. 

On the bottom, boost Sam on Jo to activate the button 

Both will fall up. 

Once you see the exits, align Jo and Sam to them. Congratulations, you have completed the game! 
